©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

The Magnus Protocol
Episode 2
"Making Adjustments"
Written by Alexander J Newall
Edited by Jonathan Sims

Show-Notes are available at the end of the Transcript.

12-09-2023
Draft 1.3
[1]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

ANNOUNCER
This episode is dedicated to
Christian, and also Coco.
[MUSIC]
ANNOUNCER
Rusty Quill Presents: The Magnus
Protocol.
Episode Two – Making Adjustments
[Music]

1. INT. OIAR OFFICES - NIGHT, CLEAR (COMPUTER).
The decrepit O.I.A.R. PC boots up once again and starts
recording with SAM and GWEN mid conversation. GWEN is
setting up her workstation whilst SAM is digging through
the enormous DPHW filing manual.
SAM
-OK… Dracula.
GWEN
(distracted)
V for vampires. Assuming you mean
Count Dracula, a la the novel, I’d
suggest subsection “popular
culture” and assuming he’s
behaving as I’d expect-he is.

SAM

GWEN
I’d guess a DPHW of… seven four
seven five.
Sam trawls through his manual.
SAM
Close... Seven, four, six, five.
GWEN is clearly a little irritated.

[2]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

SAM
OK… Frankenstein?
GWEN
Assuming you mean the scientist
not the monsterSAM
I do.
GWEN
(cont.)
-and that’d be another
“resurrection,” possible
subsections… “obsession,”
“medical”, “pursuit” and… hmmm.
“Blasphemy”, maybe, so that would
make it… four two three seven.
Sam trawls through the manual again.
Well?

GWEN

SAM
Five, three, three, seven.
GWEN
Pass that here.
SAM passes her the manual. GWEN turns a page back and
forth. She gives an irritated snort then passes the manual
back to SAM roughly.
SAM
This thing is enormous, we can’t
possibly be expected to just
memorise all of it?
GWEN
You’re won’t keep up if you’re sat
there turning pages all night.
SAM
But surely there’s a system or
something. Like, what does DPHW
stand for?

[3]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

GWEN
I don’t know if it stands for
anything. It’s just an arbitrary
index. You just gain a sense for
it after a while.
SAM
But someone came up with it
meaning there was a logic to it at
some pointGWEN

Sam.

SAM
(cont.)
-so if we can just figure out what
links similar cases then we’d know
what the system was based on andGWEN
(pointedly)
Sam.
SAM stops mid flow.
GWEN
We aren’t here to decode the
system. That’s Colin’s job and
you’ve seen what a delight it’s
made him. Just try to learn your
codes and process your cases.
SAM
(waving the manual)
But I’m never going to learn all
this! You’ve been here years and
even you haven’t managed toGWEN
(coldly)
Then quit. No-one’s making you
work here.

I-

SAM
(thrown)
Right.
[4]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

Beat. GWEN is typing angrily.
SAM
(Apologetic)
Listen GwenGWEN
(Snapping)
What?
ALICE enters noisily. She dumps her bags at her desk
completely breaking the tension.
ALICE
(Entering)
Ahoyhoy! Did you miss me? Was it
torture?
GWEN
(returning to work)
You’re late.
ALICE
I’m sure the UK government found
some way to soldier on without me
forShe checks her watch and snorts.
ALICE
(cont.)
Three and a half minutes.
GWEN
(still typing)
Whatever.
ALICE
Everything good here? Enjoying
playtime with Auntie Gwen?
Beat.
SAM
…yeah. It’s been fine.
Beat.
[5]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

ALICE
(booting her computer)
…cool. We’ll unpack that ominous
silence later but for now we
should probably get started. We’ve
still not cleared your backlog.
Sure.

SAM

Pause. Everyone works.
GWEN
(muttering)
If you’re so concerned with
backlog maybe being on time would
help…
ALICE
(quietly leaning in to
Gwen)
Hey Gwen? Gwen? Gwen?
GWEN
(gritting teeth)
What?
Beat.
ALICE
(sardonic)
Time isn’t real.
SAM snorts. GWEN takes a deep breath.
GWEN
Shut up.

[6]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

2. INT. APARTMENT/INT. THERAPIST OFFICE – DAY, CLEAR (CASE
FILE - VIDEO CALL RECORDING)
DARIA
Hi, am I coming through?
THERAPIST
Yes, but there’s no video.
DARIA
Um. I’d er, I’d rather not if
that’s okay?
THERAPIST
That might be something to dive
into later, but it’s fine for now.
DARIA
Great.
THERAPIST
I’ve gone over the paperwork that
doctor Khan sent over and there’s
quite a lot to unpack soDARIA
I’m not crazy.
Beat.
THERAPIST
Of course. I’m not a huge fan of
that word at the best of times,
but I am interested in what makes
you lead with that.
DARIA
The last guy used the word
“delusions” a lot, but that’s not…
I know what’s real. And I need you
to believe me.
Beat.
THERAPIST
I think I can do that. I can try,
at least.

[7]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

DARIA
And don’t do that either. I don’t
want your sympathy. I just want to
get this over with.
Beat.
THERAPIST
Normally I’d caution against that
attitude, but I understand these
are sessions are court-ordered, so
the situation is a little more
complicated. How about we start
with you giving your own account
of what brought you here. How does
that sound?
DARIA
Oh. Er. I didn’t think we’d be
going straight into it…
THERAPIST
We don’t have to if you don’t want
to.
DARIA
No, no, it’s fine. I just, I’m not
sure where to start y’know?
THERAPIST
Take your time.
Sure.

DARIA

Beat.
DARIA
(cont.)
I've always hated the way I
looked. I’m sure there’s some deep
trauma behind it you’re itching to
unpack, but it’s a fact. And it’s
not like I can avoid thinking
about it. I'm a visual artist who
gets most of her work from social
media commissions. That means I'm
spending four or five hours a day
[8]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

on Instagram minimum and that
messes you up after a while
y’know? Like, we all know it's
fake, it's all filters and
Photoshop and everyone pretending
that they're the “real deal”
#makeupfree! But just because you
know that doesn't mean you’re
immune and yeah, I’d ended up in a
pretty dark place. And when I
turned 30, I decided to do
something about it.
I started with my hair, grew it
out to make my face look longer.
It sort of worked. Then I chucked
out all my older sister’s clothes
and dipped into my savings to get
myself a couple of pairs of my own
jeans that didn't make me look
quite so much like an overloaded
ice cream cone. I even shelled out
for a cute LBD for when I did lose
a bit of weight. Mum said I was
being overambitious, but it hangs
off me now of course. Most clothes
do…
Beat.
Daria?

THERAPIST

DARIA
(flustered)
Sorry, where was I?
THERAPIST
You were giving yourself something
of a makeover.
DARIA
Oh right yeah.
So I'm stood there in the bathroom
looking in the mirror trying to
figure out what’s missing and
that’s when I decide I need a
[9]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

tattoo. I had a couple already –
just little things on shin and
wrist – but I decided I need
something big. Something that
really changed my look. So I start
trawling Insta for tattooists.
At first glance it looks like
there’s a huge amount of choice
but the more you look the more you
realise that they’re mostly
recycled designs and even those
were waaaay too expensive for me.
It was actually when I was looking
for some inspiration for a
commission that I found them. I
was meant to be doing a portrait
for some generic witchy alchemist
and it was when I was researching
the symbols and stuff that I came
across “Ink5oul” – it’s, uh, like
“ink soul” but the s is a number
5. You can look them up. They’re
pretty popular these days.
They didn’t have as many followers
back then but the designs were
great and they offered a massive
discount if you agreed to a photo
shoot afterwards. I figured I had
nothing to lose by reaching out so
I got on their site, filled in the
“about me” contact form and got an
immediate response inviting me
into their “prestigious” London
studio.
I actually heard the studio before
I saw it. Obnoxious dubstep was
echoing out from the far end of
the corridor and when I turned the
corner I found myself looking at
the most “influencer” set up
imaginable. A huge purple neon
sign took up most of the shopfront
with “Ink5oul” written in cursive,
[10]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

flanked by a pair of ludicrously
huge speakers. Looking beyond into
the interior, it seemed like more
of the studio was dedicated to
ring lights and photography gear
than tattoos!
Ink5oul themself was... to be
honest they were kind of
underwhelming. Not a lot sticks in
my mind, except that they had an
absolutely gorgeous floral serpent
design running up their arm and
into their neck that was so vivid
it looked ready to slither off
their skin and onto the chair.
They beckoned me over and we
chatted for a bit. It was weird,
they didn’t ask me about what
design I wanted, they just kept
pressing me about my life, about
why I wanted the ink. I was
honest, maybe uncomfortably so,
but nothing really seemed to grab
them until I told them what I did
for a living. Then they broke into
this huge grin and cried “The
artist becomes the canvas!”
Before I could reply they hit a
button on their set-up and
suddenly we were live streaming
with lights in my eyes and their
arm tight around my shoulders. I
don’t remember much of what they
said to their viewers, but they
kept telling everyone how lucky I
was whilst they dragged me into
the chair.
Suddenly they tilted it back and
before I knew what was happening I
cried out in shock as the needle
hit my skin. They hadn’t discussed
the design or anything they just
started working on the inside of
[11]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

my left forearm, my drawing arm. I
could feel panic start to rise
inside me, but all I could do was
sit perfectly still.
I stopped being able to think
about anything at that point as it
was by far the worst pain of my
entire life. Vicious shooting
pains leapt up and down my whole
arm from my chest to my
fingertips. Every muscle snapped
taut automatically and my back
arched on the chair. I wanted to
scream but I couldn't even breathe
as it felt like thousands of wasp
stings ravaged my body whilst
mediocre dubstep thrummed through
my chest and Ink5ouls chatted to
their viewers completely
unconcerned.
I must have passed out because
when I opened my eyes Ink5oul was
at the other end of the studio
cleaning their bloody tools. The
stream was over and I was
apparently forgotten. The pain had
dulled so I dared to look down at
my forearm expecting to see a
tattered and bloody mess. Instead,
a pristine paintbrush design
spanned from the interior of my
elbow to the inside of my palm, a
flurry of colourful floral
patterns entwined with symbols I
didn't recognise. Despite the pain
I twisted my arm back and forth to
admire the work and those symbols
almost seemed to glitter in the
light. It was... It was beautiful.
Just as suddenly as the lights had
turned on, they were off and I was
bundled towards the exit. No
debrief, no aftercare. They said
they had the shots they needed and
[12]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

before I knew it, I was stood
outside, dazzled and unsteady. I
considered going back in but I was
so tired… Instead I just stumbled
back home, my new tattoo still
completely exposed.
Back in my flat, I cleaned it,
moisturised it, then covered it as
best as I could but it was already
pristine. If it weren’t for the
pain, it could have been there
weeks already. I stood before the
bathroom mirror and looked myself
over and for the first time I saw
someone interesting. Someone I
wanted to know more about.
I went a bit manic at that point.
For the first time ever I wanted
to attempt a self-portrait.
Something real and physical, I
wanted to feel the brushes in my
hands and the oil on my
fingertips.
I worked through the entire night
with a passion like I hadn’t had
in years. There were thick
globules of paint all over the
room; my hands, arms, face and
clothes were covered but when I
surveyed the finished work it was
spotless, not only that it was by
far my best work, a luscious
Impasto that leapt off the canvas.
I had been calling myself an
artist for years but this was the
first time I had felt it.
I don’t remember falling asleep
and I didn't wake up till past
four in the afternoon. I was still
tired and had a pounding headache
along with my throbbing arm but I
still awoke with a smile because
[13]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

when I opened my eyes, my own face
was staring back at me and for the
first time, I wasn't ashamed.
At least, not initially.
As I stared at it though, I
noticed that whilst it was
accurate it wasn't perfect. The
eyes were still slightly wrong,
the angle of the smile was off and
obviously the nose still wasn’t
quite right.
Looking around me, I realised that
all of my paints were still out. I
looked at my new tattoo, and
realised that I would be fine to
do just a quick touch up. Nothing
major, just a slight adjustment,
just for me.
Despite the headache, my hunger,
my fatigue and my painful arm, I
began to take a pallet knife to
the left eye. Just a small tweak.
It was as subtle change, barely
noticeable but I knew I was making
progress, because I could feel
when the knife scraped bone.
When I finally went into the
bathroom to check I was still
pleased with the result. There was
no discolouration, no bleeding, no
damage at all but the face around
my eyes was definitely more
symmetrical. It looked so much
better. But not quite perfect.
I should have stopped then. I
should have taken a break. I
should have called my mum, put
everything away and gone outside,
but… the power was in my hands. I

[14]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

could finally make myself perfect.
It was small tweaks at first,
giving a fresh gasp of pain each
time. I slightly lengthened my
fingers, made my ears little more
delicate, straightened my nose and
reangled my cheekbones, tapered my
chin, slimmed my waist, increased
my bust, narrowed my frame,
lengthened my legs, adjusted my
calves, thinned my wrists,
shortened my feet… Nothing much,
really.
But when I reworked my shoulders
that I ran into a problem. As my
brush and knife made their
alterations, the tattoo on my arm
began to leak. Not out of my skin,
but along my upper arm, spreading
out and flowing its rivers of
colour into the new contours I was
creating. And the tattoo, of
course, was the only thing so far
that was actually perfect so I had
to work around it as best I could.
I worked solidly for days. Each
time I slipped the knife into my
skin and reshaped it I got just
that little bit closer to
perfection, but each time I had to
make more and more compromises
around the spreading tattoo.
I was close though, so close. It
almost there, that wholeness you
only feel when the canvas is
finally complete… But I just
couldn’t bridge the gap. Each time
I would fix up one spot only for
two others to become undone, and
the whole time the tattoo just
kept spreading and spreading and
my masterpiece kept receding.

[15]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

That was when my housemate Sarah
got back from visiting her
parents. I’d lost track of time
and didn’t realise her trip was
already over.
I had hoped I could show off my
new look to her when it was
finished but I never got the
chance. She walked in the door
just as I was finalising my mouth
so I couldn’t say anything. If I
could I’m sure I’d have been able
to explain and make her
understand.
Instead, she started screaming,
and when I made reassuring noises
and reached out to her, she backed
away. I did manage to hold her for
a moment but the work I’d done on
my hands the day before meant that
I couldn’t grip her.
That was when she punched me. I’m
sure she was just surprised but it
was still heartbreaking. Her hand
went right into my cheek and undid
days of work and the way she
carried on, you’d think it was her
face she’d messed up.
Anyway, I’m sure you’ve read the
rest in the court reports. When
the ambulance came, Sarah told
them I’d tried to kill myself with
some acid she found in my art
supplies. They put me on suicide
watch and only released me when I
agreed to attend counselling. I
haven’t made any more adjustments
since then. Just, waiting for
inspiration I guess.
Pause.

[16]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

THERAPIST
I see. That’s quite the story.
DARIA
You don’t believe me, either.
THERAPIST
I didn’t say that. I would however
like to ask you directly, did you
try to harm yourself with acid?
Beat.
DARIA
Of course not. I never wanted to
hurt myself, I just wanted to
be...better.
THERAPIST
That’s good to hear.
DARIA
(cont.)
If I wanted to clear the canvas, I
would have used turpentine.

[17]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

3. INT. OIAR OFFICES - NIGHT, CLEAR (COMPUTER).
SAM finishes listening to the Case and files it with a
recognizable ping he then leans back and takes a deep
breath.
ALICE
(looking over)
Problems?
Hm? No.

SAM

ALICE
(returning to work)
Oh good.
Beat.
SAM
It’s just…
ALICE
(still working)
Uh-huh?
SAM
How on earth do you cope listening
to all this stuff? Neither of you
seem bothered by any of it!
ALICE
Oh, I see… You want to know how to
handle reading and listening to
all of it?
SAM
Yes!
ALICE
The secret of the steel-trap mind
which keeps me stoic in the face
of atrocities that would drive a
lesser will to madness?
SAM
(growing irritated)
Please.
[18]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

Beat.
ALICE
Just stop paying attention.. Don’t
look at me like that, I’m serious.
I just skim the case for keywords,
and if it’s a talker I hit play
and get on with other work. Then
when it’s done being creepy I
process it and move on. You’re
never going to keep up if you keep
actually taking it all in. Just
surf the wave without being drawn
in.
SAM
But what if something comes up
that you know might be true?
ALICE
Why would that matter? Plus, we’re
kinda specifically paid to not
care.
But-

SAM

ALICE
You asked how to cope. That’s how.
Beat.
SAM
(sighing)
All right.
ALICE
(returning to work)
The sooner you accept it the
happier you’ll be.
SAM
(unconvinced)
Sure.

[19]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

4. INT. OIAR BREAKROOM - NIGHT, CLEAR (CCTV).
ALICE is getting horrible coffee from the grinding coffee
machine.
GWEN enters and starts making tea.
Extended pause.
ALICE
Gwendolyn.
GWEN
(coldly)
Don’t.
ALICE
(sardonic)
Wow. What a rude way to great your
“work bestie”!.
GWEN
I’m not in the mood.
ALICE
That’s okay. We can just do small
talk like normal people.
Beat.
ALICE
(cont.)
So...
Beat.
ALICE
(cont.)
What if you could magically speak
all languages, but after every
sentence you had to fart really
loudly and declare “it was me and
I’ll do it again”. Would you take
that deal?
GWEN
Lena’s planning redundancies.

[20]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

ALICE
(genuinely thrown)
What?
GWEN
Yeah. I was going past her office
earlier and I overheard her on the
phone. They’re “expanding external
operations” and you know what that
means. Outsourcing. Redundancies.
ALICE
That’s absurd! There’s only like
three of us here. Besides,
technically this is civil service.
There’s no way they could just
outsource everything without an
entire mountain of bureaucracy.
GWEN
You don’t know that.
ALICE
You’ve seen how much paperwork
this place generates. You’ve got
to file a form in triplicate
before they’ll let you take a
piss! It’d take them years to pull
off what you’re suggesting.
GWEN
She could have started the process
years ago. We both know Lena
wouldn’t think twice about dumping
both of us.
ALICE
You maybe. I like to think we have
a rapport.
GWEN
She hasn’t said more than 10 words
to you in the last year.
ALICE
I know. Good innit? Anyway, what
do you care? You should be happy.
Nice big payout and you can
[21]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

finally ditch this job you hate so
much.
GWEN
I don’t hate the job.
ALICE
You could’ve fooled me!
GWEN
What I hate is that no one in this
entire place will give me a single
ounce of respect.
Ah.

ALICE

Beat.
Yeah, that’s never going to
happen.
Clearly.

GWEN

ALICE
Still reckon you’ve got the wrong
end of the stick. Lena’s as likely
to hire another Sam as she is to
give us all the boot.
GWEN
If you say so.
5. INT. OIAR OFFICES - NIGHT, CLEAR (COMPUTER).
ALICE and SAM are working beside one another in silence.
The tapping of their keyboards is accompanied by a tinny
music beat leaking from ALICE’s earbuds.
Alice’s phone begins to vibrate on the desk.
Beat.
SAM
Alice.
Beat.
[22]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

SAM
(cont.)
Alice!
SAM pokes her.
ALICE
(taking out headphones)
Ow! What?
SAM
(returning to work)
Phone.
ALICE
(picking up her mobile
and standing)
Oh cheers.
(to phone)
Well hello! What’s got you calling
so late? Hm?
No not busy. I’m at work soShe blows a raspberry. SAM snorts despite himself.
ALICE
(cont. walking round the
office)
Yeah, what’s up? Right. How was
the crowd? Sounds like a solid
gig. That’s no way to talk to your
big sister. Disgraceful. So is a
tour actually on the cards this
time or… Cool. And presumably now
there’s proper interest they’re
going to ditch you for someone who
can, y’know, play an instrument?
Awwwww you always say the sweetest
things.
Beat.
ALICE
(cont. a touch more
serious)
Er yeah, that should be fine.
It’ll need to be after the 28th
though as that’s payday. Okay no
[23]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

worries. Listen, I probably should
actually go do some work. It would
be super awkward if I got fired
when you’re just on the cusp of
becoming a drug addled rock star.
Beat.
ALICE
(cont.)
Yeah no worries, I’ll talk to you
later. Say hi to Trotter for me.
Alice hangs up, genuinely cheery for a moment.
SAM
So how’s Luke?
ALICE
He’s good!
SAM
He still playing with Bullets for
Saint Sebastian?
ALICE
(returning to her desk)
God no! They broke up years ago
He’s with a new group: Dredgerman.
They’re pretty decent.
SAM
I’m glad he’s doing well, as far
as brothers go you could’ve done
worseALICE
He has his moments.
Beat.
ALICE
(changing gear)
What’s that?
SAM
Hmmm?

[24]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

ALICE
“The Magnus Institute?” You
looking to jump ship already?
SAM
Oh it’s nothing just a bit of
background researchALICE
Research? Sam, tell me this isn’t
linked to any of your cases.
SAM
Just something that came up on my
first day. I’ve been trying to get
it out of my head.
ALICE
Well try harder.
SAM
It’s fine honestly, I’m on top of
my case loadALICE
It’s not that.
SAM
Then what’s the problem?
Beat.
ALICE
I wasn’t messing with you earlier,
you do need to compartmentalize
for this job. Make a box in your
head and at the end of the shift
you dump everything in there and
hit the incinerate button okay?
You do not want to be thinking
about this stuff outside of here.
It’s not good for you. I’ve seen
people go weird before now.
SAM
And let me guess, I’m weird
enough.

[25]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

ALICE
I’m serious Sam.
SAM
(Realizing)
All right. I hear you.
He closes the browser tab.
Thanks.

ALICE

SAM
No worries.
ALICE
That’s the general idea.
[Music]
ANNOUNCER
The Magnus Protocol is a podcast
distributed by Rusty Quill and
licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution Non-Commercial Sharealike 4.0 International License.
The series is created by Jonathan
Sims and Alexander J Newall, and
directed by Alexander J Newall.
This episode was written by
Alexander J Newall and edited with
additional material by Jonathan
Sims, with vocal edits by Lowri
Ann Davies, sound scaping by Tessa
Vroom, and masting by Catherine
Rinella with music by Sam Jones.
It featured Billie Hindle as Alice
Dyer, Shahan Hamza as Samama
Khalid, Anusia Battersby as Gwen
Bouchard.
The Magnus Protocol is produced by
April Sumner, with executive
producers Alexander J Newall, Dani
McDonough, Linn Ci, and Samantha
F.G. Hamilton, and Associate
Producers Jordan L. Hawk, Taylor
Michaels, Nicole Perlman, Cetius
d’Raven, and Megan Nice.
[26]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

To subscribe, view associated
materials or join our Patreon
visit rustyquill.com. Rate and
review us online, tweet us
@therustyquill, visit us on
Facebook, or email us at
mail@rustyquill.com.
Thanks for listening.

[27]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

The Magnus Protocol 2 – Making Adjustments
CAT3RBC1567-23092022-18012024
Transformation (full) -/- dysmorphic [video call]
Incident Elements:
- Body modification
- Dysmorphia/Dysphoria
- Addiction/Mania
- Self-harm
- Therapy
- Burnout
- Needles (tattoo)
- Discussion of: Suicide/Self-Harm
Transcripts: https://shorturl.at/gzF15
This Episode is dedicated to Christian (and also Coco) thank you for your generous
support! You can a complete list of our Kickstarter backers https://rustyquill.com/the-

magnus-protocol-supporter-wall/
Created by Johnathan Sims and Alexander J Newall
Directed by Alexander J Newall
Written by Alexander J Newall
Script Editing by Johnathan Sims
Executive Producers April Sumner, Alexander J Newall, Jonathan Sims, Dani
McDonough, Linn Ci, and Samantha F.G. Hamilton
Associate Producers Jordan L. Hawk, Taylor Michaels, Nicole Perlman, Cetius
d’Raven, and Megan Nice
Produced by April Sumner
Featuring (in order of appearance)
Billie Hindle as Alice Dyer
Anusia Battersby as Gwendolyn Bouchard
Shahan Hamza as Samama Khalid
Kate Sketchley as Daria
Jenny Haufek as Therapist
Dialogue Editor – Lowri Ann Davies
Sound Designer – Tessa Vroom
Mastering Editor - Catherine Rinella
Music by Sam Jones (orchestral mix by Jake Jackson)
Art by April Sumner

SFX from Soundly. From Freesound (CCO): be_a_hero_not_a_patriot,
Joao_Janz, hz37, sagetyrtle, kyles, SpliceSound, Timmeh515, sangtao,
lamamakesmusic, phantastonia, aurelon, LaurenPonder, Akatukoaut,
[28]

©Rusty Quill 2023

Private & Confidential

jodybruchon, squareal, marleneayni, lartti, PeteHaase, PuzzleAudio (CC-3.0):
jomse, rhodesmas
Support us on Patreon at https://patreon.com/rustyquill
Check out our merchandise available at
https://www.redbubble.com/people/RustyQuill/shop and
https://www.teepublic.com/stores/rusty-quill
Join our community:
WEBSITE: rustyquill.com
FACEBOOK: facebook.com/therustyquill
TWITTER: @therustyquill
REDDIT: reddit.com/r/RustyQuill
EMAIL: mail@rustyquill.com
The Magnus Protocol is a derivative product of the Magnus Archives, created by Rusty
Quill Ltd. and licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Share
alike 4.0 International Licence.

[29]

