The editors of The Magnus Archives have witnessed a fair few things in their time, let's take a moment to hear things from their P.O.V.


##### [CLICK]

#### ALEX

_(humming)_ Doo-boo-do-do *do*-do-do-do -- do-do... _(quietly)_ *Ow.*

_(exhales)_ It has been a loooong day, editor. A long, *Magnus*-filled day. Which is not a good thing. Mostly been sad down the microphone while Jonny gets to be *scary* down the microphone.

Just once I want to be scary, I want to be like, "Rahhh! I'm gonna get ya!" But no, it's -- sad Martin, sad Martin time.

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

#### ALEX

Made me just realize what's on the desk. Bee-boop bee-boop. I am Alex. [whirr] [whirr] I am here to: READ. [whirr] [whirr]

Can you spot the guy that's been recording *way* too much. _(laughs)_ Okay. Well, well -- let's try this again. Alright.

##### [CLEARS THROAT]

_(warming up)_ Martin Martin Martin. Oh no, sorry -- *Also*-Martin. Right. Softer, close to mic. _(softly)_ Here we go.

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

#### ALEX

Whoof. Okay. _(snaps fingers)_ So that is all the Martin-only takes.

People are going to hate me by the end of this editing, like, "Alex, stop! This is like four hours of audio!" And I'm going to be like, "Yee-up." And they're going to be like, "Why are you doing this, Alex?!" And I'm going to be like, "Cos Jonny hates you. And hates me, and made us do this."

------

#### HELEN

Sorry, I just -- when my brain says, "You're acting now," I'm like, "Ah! I'm on a stage!"

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LOWRI

"To the gods!"

------

#### ALEX

Can we go with, er, take 4 subbing in from take 3, erm... eh, screw it, either take 3 or take 4, but please make sure to use the funnest bits from take 4.

##### [SNICKERING]

#### LYDIA

Make us sound cool!

#### SASHA

Add some powers.

#### LYDIA

Yeeeah!

#### ALEX

Yeah, basically, in which case, then, we can all stop recording, I think we're good there.

#### ALL

Okay!

------

#### ALEX

Three, two, one.

##### [EVERYONE CLAPS]

I never noticed, but you clap with the force of a thousand suns!

#### HELEN(?)

I do. I do.

##### [ALEX MAKES TWO EXPLODING NOISES]

##### [HELEN SNICKERS]

#### HELEN (CONT'D)

That's how one claps.

------

#### LYDIA

Please use "I want my cat back" from the pickup. And Alex has confirmed that you use the *sauciest* "Unoccupied."

##### [LAUGHTER]

Okay, no he hasn't. He's unsure whether to go saucy or not. But, like, he's right. I probably shouldn't have made it so saucy.

-- I just can't -- _(mock-tortured)_ It's my raw sexual energy, Alex!

##### [SNICKERING]

------

##### [ALEX CLEARS HIS THROAT MULTIPLE TIMES, WHACKS HIS CHEST]

#### JONNY

You alright?

#### ALEX

Yeah, my vocal fry's real bad today.

#### JONNY

Mm. I mean, from here on in, I think, Martin's allowed to have as much vocal fry as he needs.

#### ALEX

From this point it's okay, the issue is that the previous recording was comparatively clean, as I remember.

##### [JONNY MAKES COMMISERATING NOISES]

#### ALEX

So I need to -- I need to transition into High-Geared Alex.

#### JONNY

"Oh look! It's Elias! _(much deeper whisper)_ What do we do about him?"

#### ALEX

Yeah, little bit. My voice is broken, Jonny. We started this so long ago, and I've gone through all these changes and there's this *hair* everywhere, Jonny -- _(exaggerated vocal waver)_ I can't play Martin anymore, I don't know what's going on! Heaaaargh!

#### JONNY

Well, I mean, it had to happen eventually, didn't it.

------

#### JONNY

A Bouchard body.

#### ALEX

It's a Bouchard Bod.

#### JONNY

A Bouchard Bod. The Bou-Bou. _(pause)_ The Bou-Bod.

#### ALEX

The Bou-Bod.

#### JONNY

The Bou-Bod.

#### ALEX

Bou-bonic plague.

------

#### ALEX

Yeah, there we go.

#### JONNY

Grand.

#### ALEX

_(typing something out)_ Okay...

#### JONNY

_(singsong)_ Thank-you-editor.

#### ALEX

_(laughs, starts singing too)_ Thank-you-editor, thank-you-editor.

#### ALEX & JONNY

_(harmonising)_ Thank-you-editor, thank-you-editor, this take has a da-da-da...

#### ALEX

Okay.

------

#### ALEX

One thing, Chioma, is when doing the sounds marker, just because we've come to be aware of something with the equipment. If you can, please click -- _(clicks his fingers)_ -- rather than clap. If you can't click, just make it a sort of light golf clap, I can't remember -- I can't remember if we knew that the last time, that you were recording.

#### CHIOMA

No worries, I can click away. _(clicks her fingers over her words)_ I -- I'm quite proud of my clicking, so.

##### [SOME MORE RHYTHMIC CLICKING]

#### ALEX

Excellent. In that case, then -- _(pause)_ I just -- Everyone _(censored)_ loves clicking! It's just the universal truth, that if you can click, everyone's like, "Yeahhhh."

#### CHIOMA

I love it, yeah. I can click! _(clicks)_ I feel so offended on people who *can't.*

#### JONNY

I heard some behind-the-scenes audio of the *Rusty Quill Gaming* crew __roasting__ me for clicking too dramatically.

##### [CHIOMA BURSTS INTO LAUGHTER]

#### CHIOMA

_(clapping lightly on each word)_ How does one click dramatically?

#### ALEX

Allow me to do an impression of Jonny's clicking. This is important. Right.

Normal human click: _(click)_

Jonny click: _(extended pause...)_ _(click)_

##### [OUTBURST OF CACKLING FROM OTHERS]

#### JONNY

It's --

#### ALEX

He clicks like a magician, just before the curtains have *pulled aside* and the assistant has disappeared.

#### JONNY

It's --

#### CHIOMA

That's *so* _(inaudible)_

#### ALEX

Every time, I love it.

#### JONNY

I click like a normal human man.

##### [CHIOMA STILL DYING OF LAUGHTER]

#### ALEX

I think it's a Mechanisms click, honestly. It's the... _(extended pause...)_ _(click)_

#### JONNY

Normal human man click.

------

#### ALEX

Three, two, one.

##### [EVERYONE CLICKS THEIR FINGERS]

#### ALEX (CONT'D)

Sorry, Jonny, that was a bit of a rubbish click, can we, uh --

##### [JONNY GROANS EXAGGERATEDLY]

##### [SNICKERING FROM EVERYONE ELSE]

#### FRANK

Just realized that since this is being recorded, everyone's gonna see how I lick my fingers for every silence marker because my hands are dry.

#### LOWRI(?)

Well, they *weren't gonna* until you *said* that there.

#### ALEX

Oh, god, could you imagine. Everyone else clicks. For Zim it's the *actual lick itself* that's, that's the marker. Eurgh.

#### JONNY

_(inaudible)_ case of E45 cream, just for the pads of your fingers.

------

##### [EXTENDED SILENCE]

##### [SUDDEN LAUGHTER]

#### JONNY

That was a very funny joke, editor, that was a very funny joke from Lowri... _(exaggerated remorse)_ that you will *never know.*

#### FRANK

Lowri made a great joke, it was a callback to something that *I've* said that you *also* didn't hear. So, uh... _(laughing)_ I'm sorry.

------

##### [CLICK]

##### [NOISES OF METAL TWISTING, MAYBE CLOSING A WATERBOTTLE CAP?]

#### ALEX

Okay, fine, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm going to use the *magic sauce.*

I'm going to stand the _(censored)_ up.

##### [EVERYONE GASPS DRAMATICALLY. SOMEONE SAYS "WHAT?!"]

##### [A PAUSE AS ALEX PRESUMABLY STANDS UP]

#### ALEX (CONT'D)

Oh hey, lower back, I remember you! _(laughing)_ I've not -- I've not *used* you in more than a year. How're you doing.

#### LYDIA

You know what, I've literally had several messages, while we've been recording, about -- my partner got a standing desk and a *wobble board.*

##### [SOMEONE OOHS]

#### ALEX

A wobble board! What a _(censored)_ champ!

#### LYDIA

And says that it is a *full-body* workout, that like, you spend the next day, like -- you have to build up slowly, cos if you overdo it then the next day is like, "Oh! That's a small muscle that I forgot I had!"

#### LOWRI

I'm intimidated just by the thought.

#### ALEX

Yeah, wobble board's next on my, er, next on my list. _(laughs villainously)_ And then I'll be that _(censored)_-head who also sits on an exercise board and there'll be no going back.

#### FRANK(?)

Oh, my god.

#### LYDIA

A wobble board, *on an exercise board.*

#### FRANK(?)

Oh, I hate this _(inaudible)_

#### JONNY

Just that thing where you're like, the golden tabletop session and you're just building towers of dice, except with Alex --

##### [OUTBURST OF LAUGHTER]

#### JONNY (CONT'D)

-- and various exercise equipment.

#### LYDIA

I was so proud of, like, investing in a desk that has shelves that come out and finding a second screen that fit in the little thing?

#### ALEX

_(admiringly)_ Nice.

#### JONNY

You're tethered to the sitting world.

#### LYDIA

That's it. That's it, Jonny. I'm tethered to this.

#### JONNY

_(dramatically)_ That second screen a *nail* through your feet.

##### [OUTBURST OF CACKLING]

#### JONNY (CONT'D)

No, a nail through your ass, into the chair.

#### LYDIA

Yeah, yeah. Oof! Yeah.

------

#### ALEX

Like-kee-live, everyone!

#### FRANK

Thanks for adding the direction, "Super awkward."

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### ALEX

Needs more. Needs more awkward.

#### JONNY

Okay, the cat is -- *howling* outside the door, so give me a second.

##### [A DOOR ROLLS OPEN]

##### [THE OTHER ACTORS START SINGING PLEASANTLY]

#### JONNY

_(distantly)_ Go away!

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### ALEX

Waow, waow, waow.

------

#### JONNY

_(yawning)_ Are you sure about that? I had some really clacky headphones, cheap ones I stole from work.

Oh, are you really still recording that, Lowri, cos that *was* a confession of theft from my employer --

##### [EXTENDED BEEP]

#### JONNY (CONT'D)

-- as was the time --

#### ALEX

Ugh, dammit.

#### JONNY

Now currently --

##### [MORE EXTENDED BEEP]

-- part of --

##### [EVEN MORE EXTENDED BEEP]

