---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG200.33 - Goodbye For Now"
date:            2021-11-05 12:00:00 -0400
episode_type:      special
tags:            []
voiced:          []
categories:			"tma"
podcasts: ["tma"]
title_prefix:	"MAG"
prev_categories: ["tma"]
prev_prefixes: ["MAG"]
prev_episode:		['20032-rustyfears-derailing']
prev_episode_num:		['200.32']
prev_episode_title:		["Rusty Fears 5 - Derailing"]
# next_categories: ["tma"]
# next_prefixes: ["MAG"]
# next_episode:		['20033-goodbyefornow']
# next_episode_num:		['200.33']
# next_episode_title:		["Goodbye For Now"]
episode_title:   "Goodbye For Now"
episode_number:  '200.33'
summary:         "A huge, heartfelt thank you to everyone who has listened, worked on and supported us through the making of The Magnus Archives.<br/><br/>Goodbye for now and thanks for listening!"
content_flags:   []
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag-goodbyefornow
formats:
official:        true
---

##### [THE *MAGNUS* THEME]

#### JONNY

Hi everyone, this is Jonny Sims.

#### ALEX

And Alexander J Newall.

#### JONNY

From *The Magnus Archives,* a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International Licence.

#### ALEX

_(faster)_ A Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International Licence?

#### JONNY

_(confirming)_ Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International Licence.

#### ALEX

Nicely done.

#### JONNY

Thank you.

#### ALEX

If you're listening to this message, then that means you've now made it through all of the content on the *Magnus Archives* podcast feed.

#### JONNY

Or you've picked -- just the *worst* episode to start on imaginable.

#### ALEX

_(audible wince)_ Yeahhh.

#### JONNY

Although, you know what, if this *is* the first thing on the feed you're listening to, head back to episode one and start there. Trust us. It is a hell of a ride.

#### ALEX

Off you pop.

#### JONNY

We'll be here when you're done.

##### [LONG SILENCE, IN WHICH ALEX BEATBOXES FAINTLY]

#### ALEX

Right. All done? _(inhales)_ Great. Okay, so we *hope* you've enjoyed it, and we want to thank you so much for our support.

#### JONNY

It means the world to us that you've enjoyed our work, and -- we hope it's given you some... thrills, chills, and the occasional "creep-em-up."

#### ALEX

And we just wanted to thank this opportunity to say a proper goodbye, as we've come to the end of the podcast. We're no longer going to be releasing regular content on this feed for the foreseeable future.

#### JONNY

Don't worry, though; all the canon *Magnus Archives* episodes will be left online for everyone to enjoy as long as it's possible for us to keep them up, which should be... a *very* long time. Apocalypses notwithstanding.

#### ALEX

_(snorts)_ It has been an absolutely wild journey over the last few years, from blanket forts to studios to lockdown recordings, and we know that through all that, we never would've been able to finish this show without everyone's ongoing support. Cast, crew, fans and friends alike. We will always be incredibly grateful to all of you.

#### JONNY

We do have -- a *few* plans bubbling away for *Magnus* in the future, which we can't talk about right now, but rest assured as soon as we are able to give any announcements we'll let you all know here.

#### ALEX

And in the meantime, if you're looking for more *Magnus Archives* content and haven't yet tried joining our Patreon, we strongly recommend you check it out as there's a whole bunch more stuff in there to sink your teeth into. And you can find out more at patreon.com/rustyquill.

#### JONNY

There's also now a whole bunch of other shows on the Rusty Quill Network that will definitely satisfy your ghoulish weekly cravings, so be sure to check out rustyquill.com for more info on those.

#### ALEX

And if you're looking for more of Jonny Sims's work specifically --

#### JONNY

That's me!

#### ALEX

-- be sure to check out jonathan-sims.com.

#### JONNY

That's all for now, then. Apart from saying one last time, from both of us, genuinely...

#### ALEX & JONNY

Thanks for listening.

##### [THE *MAGNUS* THEME FADES IN, THEN OUT]