Content Warnings: • Social anxiety • Food • Discussions of: police & imprisonment • Mentions of: heights, injury, fire, weapons • SFX: fire 

##### [Show Theme -- Intro]

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Rusty Quill Presents: *Chapter and Multiverse.*

##### [SFX: Tavern Ambience]

Ah, you've returned! Wonderful. I take it you're not just here for the excellent beverages? But of course, you want to know what happened next to our young protagonists? I'd be very happy to tell you.

Last time we saw them, they had been invited to join TARGE, the governmental agency responsible for superheroes. As they made their way to the rendezvous at the Tip Top Coffee Shop, that was the first time that I had the opportunity to say hello. 

##### [SFX: Sci-Fi whoosh]

#### MADDY

Hello and welcome to *Chapter and Multiverse,* the actual play podcast where we explore the same city across multiple parallel universes. I am your game master Maddy Searle, pronouns she/her, and today we will be continuing our campaign of Masks: a New Generation, which is designed by Brendan Conway and allows players to take on the role of young superheroes.

But before we go any further I must introduce our wonderful and talented players. Could you please let me know your name and pronouns and your character's name and pronouns, starting with Pip.

#### PIP

Hello, I'm Pip Gladwin -- he/him -- and I will be playing Joseph Teller, otherwise known as Zenith, also he/him. 

#### MADDY

Fabulous. And Lowri? 

#### LOWRI

Hello! I am Lowri Ann Davies and I am playing Blodeuwedd Morgan. Both of us go by she/her pronouns. 

#### MADDY

Wonderful. And Ahmed? 

#### AHMED

Hi, I'm Ahmed Aljabry and I will be playing Adeeb, who is also known as The Turban. His pronouns are he and him. 

#### MADDY

Fabulous. And Lydia? 

#### LYDIA

Hello, I am Lydia Nicholas. My pronouns are she/they and I am playing Mini Smithson who mostly uses she/her, who is sometimes known as -- wait, no! I haven't revealed the --

#### MADDY

No! 

#### LYDIA

Hero name? No! OK! Right!

##### [Group laughter]

#### LYDIA

Mysteries await you! 

#### PIP

That was close!

#### LYDIA

Dun-dun-dah! 

#### MADDY

Near miss! 

#### LYDIA

Also totally not a hero, like absolutely a human, that is, yeah, I don't know why she's even involved in this, er, because she's totally a human... 

#### LOWRI

Yeah, you didn't mention that last time. I'm just saying. 

#### LYDIA

I know, it didn't -- it didn't come up! 

#### PIP

Well that is -- you've been sitting on that information. 

#### LOWRI

Yeah. 

#### PIP

You've been very tight-lipped about the fact that they're totally human. 

#### LYDIA

Totally a human. Yeah. 

#### PIP

I didn't know that. That's like the only thing I knew about your character.

##### [Group laughter]

#### LYDIA

Yeah. No, it's cool! 

#### AHMED

Yeah, in my, I have like a page for each character and I have only one line for Mini: "Totally a human." 

##### [MORE LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

Yeah! Like -- there are other, there are as many other salient facts about her as there are about other humans. 

#### MADDY

Mhm.

#### LOWRI

Good to know. 

##### [PIP LAUGHS]

#### LYDIA

Just fill those in! 

#### PIP

This is all useful information! It's definitely not getting cut!

#### LOWRI

Oh it's not getting cut, this is my favourite bit that we've come up with yet, so... _(laughs)_

#### MADDY

And so last we left off, each of our four young heroes had just discovered that they had been selected to join a superhero team by TARGE, the Tactical Agency for Rescue and Guidance in Emergencies. It is the government agency responsible for superheroes, and you are asked to attend your first briefing the following day at 11.00am. The rendezvous is the Tip Top Coffee Shop on Victory Road and your supervisor, Vera Constantine, will meet you and escort you to HQ.

And so as we reach closer and closer to 11.00am, who do you think would arrive at the coffee shop first? Who's the most punctual of you? 

##### [SFX: Tip Top Coffee Shop interior]

#### AHMED

I have already thought about this, and Adeeb would arrive, like, an hour early. 

##### [PLAYERS SNICKER]

##### [SFX: Door opens, bell jingles]

#### AHMED

And then he would go to another place nearby and then he will enter the place within a few minutes of the time.

##### [SFX: Door closes, bell jingles]

Like, he would just take a glance outside and then will go to somewhere nearby. 

#### MADDY

Yeah. I, I can relate to that heavily! Absolutely, yeah. You can find the local Barstucks coffee shop --

##### [SFX: Door opens; Barstucks Coffee Shop interior]

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### MADDY

-- the chain that is so prominent in Chapter -- and have a mediocre coffee there for an hour, and then rock up. 

#### LYDIA

If I understand Chapter correctly -- which I don't --

##### [MORE LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

-- many things that are established will have some continuity across space and time. So Barstucks is now canon. 

##### [Music: Calm ambience]

#### PIP

Yeah. 

#### LYDIA

Whatever happens, I'm pretty sure that there will now be some, like, craggy wanderers scaling a cliff, going into a caldera to meet --

##### [LOWRI LAUGHS]

#### LYDIA

-- you know, the Count Doom, and the little, the little person with the cart will be like: "Barstucks! Who needs some Barstucks!" 

##### [AHMED LAUGHS]

#### LOWRI

Absolutely! And I'm really pleased about this introduction to our canon.

#### MADDY

Yeah, the best things come when I am very tired in the mornings and just swapping letters around in established brands to avoid being sued.

##### [GROUP LAUGHTER]

#### MADDY

So, who after Ahmed do you think would arrive? 

#### PIP

Um, I don't wanna like, I'm not, this isn't me trying to one-up anybody --

#### LYDIA

You're gonna be even earlier! _(laughs)_

#### PIP

I think Joseph's been on the rooftop opposite this coffee shop since the m--like, probably about 5am? 

##### [SFX: City Rooftop, wind blowing and cars passing]

##### [Group laughter] 

#### LOWRI

Oh my god! 

#### MADDY

Amazing!

#### PIP

Yeah, just like and around it just like, full surveillance. You know, he's, he's checking entrances, exits, security cameras, trying to see if TARGE has set anything up in advance, you know, trying to see if they've got agents like hiding around the -- yeah, he's been there for a while. 

#### MADDY

Amazing.

Both Adeeb and Joseph can see, at their various interpretations of "early," a strange time-capsule of a coffee shop in this very modern district that is all chrome and glass and shiny and corporate. It is this little old-fashioned coffee shop with beautiful gold lettering over the door and stuffed to the brim with antique coffee paraphernalia, some lovely plants around there.

##### [SFX: Door opens and closes, bell jingles]

And Adeeb, as you go in, you can see that there is a middle-aged man behind the bar wearing a red silk waistcoat and busying himself with a very arcane-looking espresso machine. 

#### AHMED

I will sit down on the bar stool, on the, next to the counter and I will just wait for him 'til he figures it out because I don't wanna interrupt him, I see him like really frustrated with this machine. _(laughs)_ So I patiently wait until he notices me.

##### [SFX: Squeak of barstool; arcane espresso machine creaking and whirring] 

#### MADDY

Yeah it takes, takes a few minutes of sort of muttering under his breath and then eventually he turns around and goes:

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER (MADDY)

Ah! Hello there! Um, I'm so sorry, I hope you weren't waiting long.

#### ADEEB

Oh no, I just got here.

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Can I get you anything?

#### ADEEB

Mm, I will have anything chocolatey.

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Well, I have just the thing for you. 

#### MADDY

And he turns around, starts frothing up some milk, starts getting some cocoa powder together and within a few minutes you have this incredible confection with whipped cream up to the sky and sprinkles and marshmallows out the wazoo.

##### [SFX: Frothing milk, whipped cream from a spray can]

##### [Group laughter]

#### AHMED

I immediately put my credit card in front of me and start drinking this, this celebration of chocolate!

##### [SFX: Setting credit card down on bar] 

#### MADDY

Yeah, he gladly takes the credit card and taps it on the contactless card reader and hands it back to you and yeah, it is the most delicious thing you have ever had, it is incredible.

##### [SFX: Picking up card and tapping it on the reader]

#### ADEEB

Mmmm... so good. 

#### MADDY

And he turns to you and says:

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

I get the feeling that this is a very important day for you, I am not really sure what, what gives me that impression.

#### ADEEB

Is it, is it, is it my clothes, like am I wearing too formal? Like I thought like the vest is just too much and the, but, I thought the, the scarf would make it less formal and I have no idea right now.

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

I appreciate formal attire, as you can probably tell -- that is my usual mode of dress. I, I very much appreciate your sense of style. 

##### [SFX: City Rooftop]

#### MADDY

And at this point do you think Joseph would possibly enter or is he--?

#### PIP

No! 

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### MADDY

Still waiting! Waiting for everyone to arrive? 

#### PIP

I'll say it now, 100% waiting for everyone else to get there before I -- yeah, sorry to be "that guy," but I've literally made a character who's that guy!

#### AHMED

I don't think he would know who's everybody else. 

#### PIP

This is very true. This is very true. I don't, I don't necessarily know who everybody else is, so I mean -- if you'll let me, I'm 100% listening to this conversation through a laser microphone.

#### MADDY

Yeah, sure!

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### PIP

And have probably, I don't know... there's like a, I don't know, because Adeeb and I -- not that I knew Adeeb's secret identity. 

#### AHMED

Yeah. 

#### PIP

Adeeb and I have crossed paths in the superhero-ing world before. So it's like -- do I recognise this guy's voice?

#### MADDY

Why don't we do the first roll of the game. 

##### [LYDIA GASPS]

#### LOWRI

Yaaaay! First roll, first roll! 

#### MADDY

And why don't you do a roll to pierce the mask. 

#### PIP

OK.

#### MADDY

So you roll, plus Mundane. 

#### PIP

Yeah. 

#### MADDY

7 to 9 is a mixed success, 10-plus is a full success. 

#### PIP

OK. It's two D6 for the listeners at home. All right.

##### [DICE ROLLS]

Aw, it's not good enough. It's a 5. 

#### MADDY

It's a 5, all right. Yeah, this is just a lovely young man who has got a bit too excited about some kind of meeting and has dressed a little too formally for the occasion. 

#### LOWRI

Aww! 

#### PIP

Well then, I guess instead of like, it being a, "Oh, I'm gonna wait for everyone to show up" -- because obviously I don't know who the other people who've been sent the same message are -- I'm just gonna wait until it's clear some kind of meeting is happening, basically. Like that's what they've asked for, so yeah, I will continue to lurk. 

#### MADDY

Fair. And out of Morgan and Mini, who do you think would arrive next? 

#### LOWRI

Well Morgan -- she doesn't *want* to be late.

##### [LAUGHTER]

But she's probably going to be a little bit late. This is very, very new for her. So I mean, if it's OK, she'll probably arrive at about like -- well, I say "late," she'll, she's very excited about this but she does get up late. It's going to be 11.00 on the dot, I think, that she kind of runs around the corner.

And you won't know because, well, 1) you've never met her and 2) if you had seen her before, she'll look exactly the same, but the clothes she's wearing are the best version of the clothes she has. Like, the best white tank top that she has and the best jeans. Because this is new for her, she doesn't meet people, full stop. _(laughs)_ So it's, she's a bit nervous.

##### [SFX: Door opens and closes, bell jingles; Tip Top Coffee Shop interior]

#### MADDY

Fair.

And yeah, as you enter you can see that Adeeb is sitting up at the bar having a little conversation with the proprietor. There is a diverse clientele, some businesspeople, some students, some elderly folks just having a, having a little morning cuppa. 

#### LOWRI

If no one looks like they're from TARGE or like there's a meeting going on, you mentioned that there were plants -- Morgan's gonna find the biggest plant and just like -- well! And sit next to it, basically.

##### [LAUGHTER]

She's not gonna be very good at hiding away, you know, but she's obviously not very comfortable in this environment. She doesn't know how coffee shops really work, to be honest. This is a new experience. 

#### LYDIA

An emotional support *Monstera.* 

#### MADDY

For sure, yeah. You can find a particularly abundant fern in a corner and sort of nestle beside it.

##### [SFX: Sitting, disturbing the fern] 

#### LOWRI

Exactly, yeah. 

#### MADDY

And I think at this point the proprietor of the coffee shop catches your eye and just kind of like:

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Can I help you?

#### MORGAN

Yeah, er, I'm here to meet some... people.

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Well, that's lovely. Um, I'm afraid I am not aware of a particular meeting happening today, but you are welcome to wait and I'll let you know if I spot anything. 

#### LOWRI

Maddy, have we been -- sorry, were we told the name of the person we're meeting in the texts? 

#### MADDY

Yes, it was Vera Constantine. 

#### LOWRI

Oh! Then Morgan will say:

#### MORGAN

I'm here to meet Vera.

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Vera? Oh yes, she does come in here from time to time, one of those TARGE folks. Yes, absolutely. Yes, when I spot her I'll let you know so that you can go and meet her.

#### MORGAN

Thanks. I'll um -- I'll be by the fern.

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Good! Good. It's a particular nice one, I'm very proud of it.

#### MORGAN

It is, it's, it's quite old, isn't it?

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Yes, I've had it many years. It's, er, it's been through a lot with me and a lot of different places, I do travel a lot and I like to take some remnants of my past lives with me as I go.

#### MORGAN

Oh wow! That's, that's cool. Actually, could I maybe get just like a black tea, with sugar please?

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Absolutely, yes, of course. 

#### MADDY

And very quickly a black tea is presented to you. It is a very lovely kind of Assam.

##### [SFX: Rattling of teacup] 

#### LOWRI

Ooh, nice. 

#### MADDY

Leaf tea, very smoky and --

#### LOWRI

Malty. 

#### MADDY

Delicious, yeah. 

#### LOWRI

Mm. 

#### MADDY

At this point you're probably up at the bar beside Adeeb --

#### LOWRI

Yeah. 

#### MADDY

If Adeeb is still there. 

#### AHMED

Yeah. At this point like how much time has passed since our time of meeting, like 5 minutes, 10 minutes? 

#### MADDY

Since you met the proprietor of the coffee shop or--? 

#### AHMED

Yeah. 

#### MADDY

It's probably, it's probably been just a few minutes, it's not been very long. 

#### AHMED

OK, so I'm gonna keep my eye on the door waiting for anyone that looks like they could be named Vera...

##### [LAUGHTER]

I have no point of reference so I'm just gonna just watch anyone coming in. 

#### MADDY

Mm. 

#### AHMED

I'm guessing. 

#### MADDY

Absolutely. Is this the time that Mini would possibly come in or is it even later than this? 

#### LYDIA

Mini's gonna be like a couple of minutes late because Mini took the bus and --

##### [SFX: Bus interior]

#### MADDY

Ah... 

##### [SFX: Bus door opens]

#### PIP

Like a human would do. 

#### LYDIA

Yeah, like, absolutely like a human would do! And, and, and Mini is, is dressed in very human gear. You know those, you know those, like, 5-Minute Crafts or like TikToks, where people get --

#### PIP

Sorry, they're BingBongs. 

#### LOWRI

Not TikToks. 

#### LYDIA

Oh yes sorry -- well I was talking about *this* world, but... 

#### LOWRI

Oh right, sorry!

##### [Group laughter]

#### PIP

Just trying to drill it into her!

#### LYDIA

Oh OK, yes, those -- you know those short videos that one can access online on a variety of different platforms?

##### [MORE LAUGHTER]

#### LOWRI

Yes! 

#### LYDIA

Where people have jogging bottoms and they, they wear one leg as, like, a slip-on dress and then like the other leg like wraps, somehow wraps around them and it looks super-formal? Like, and I've actually mostly seen it done by, by big beardy men that are like -- being like -- "How does it, this actually works on me? This is awesome." Because I'm, I'm just on the side of TikTok where trends are deconstructed and then have to reconstruct the trend, like, backwards. 

#### LOWRI

Nice. _(laughs)_

#### LYDIA

But anyway, *that* is what Mini is wearing because Mini has realised it's a formal thing and then as for a sort of belt thing, they've got, like, oversized costume jewellery that they've then kind of extended.

Am I living through Mini's style? Slightly. Anyway --

##### [LAUGHTER]

But it looks formal. But again, there's something about it that you're just like... _(high-pitched)_ "Is that? What--? That's not--? What's--? Does not quite compute!"

#### LOWRI

Is there just like -- one of the pockets is inside out and just sticking out of the side...

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

Like yeah -- like no, no, it looks good, like there's some --

#### LOWRI

Oh, OK! 

#### LYDIA

The sum has computed but there's, like, a remainder that you don't know what to do with. It's that kind of algebra with --

#### LOWRI

What is this *k* we're left with? 

#### LYDIA

Yeah! Right! It's just something strange. Anyway -- she turns up and she's like:

##### [SFX: Door opens and closes, bell jingles]

#### MINI

Oh! Hello! Um, I would, er, I'd like a coffee please. Thank you, that would be delightful. 

#### AHMED

I, I probably recognise her the moment she walks in.

#### MINI

Ohhhh! Adeeb! 

#### AHMED

I'm then drinking -- I would be like drinking my thing and looking up and seeing her like:

#### ADEEB 

_(imitates spraying out his mouthful of hot chocolate in shock)_ Ah!

##### [Group laughter]

#### LYDIA

Mini runs over and says:

#### MINI

Hug?

#### ADEEB

Sure, sure!

#### MINI

Yay! 

##### [FABRIC RUSTLES]

#### AHMED

And hug, and I'm just, like, shocked by the outfit, and I'm not sure what to do or what to say.

#### ADEEB

How have you been? 

#### LYDIA

I have to underline that the outfit works, right?

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

Like -- you're all like, "oh this looks weird," no, it works! 

#### LOWRI

Oh I'm on board! I'm on board. Morgan is sipping her tea, like, "Wow, she looks so smart!"

#### MINI

Thank you! 

#### LOWRI

_(laughs)_ I mean, doesn't say it out loud, but thinks it.

#### MINI

Hiiiii! What a coincidence!

#### ADEEB

Yes! 

#### MINI

Actually, no, it's probably not a coincidence now I think about what the message was about, that actually makes complete sense. Yeah.

##### [LAUGHTER FROM PLAYERS]

#### ADEEB

M-message?

#### MINI

Er, you're here to meet Vera? I'm guessing? Hm?

#### ADEEB

Um, yes!

#### MINI

Lovely!

#### ADEEB

Wait, are *you* Vera? You're not Vera, are you?

#### MINI

No, I'm, I'm Mini. Is it usual to have several names?

#### ADEEB

I heard, maybe, like, I don't know, maybe like a code name or something?

#### MINI

Oh, OK. Um, no, well Vera isn't any of my names.

#### ADEEB

Oh.

#### MINI

I, I could change it! Is that normal? No? It's cool. I'm -- I'm Mini.

#### ADEEB

Well, have a seat! Do you want some of this, er, hot chocolate? It's really good.

#### MINI

That does look amazing, actually. 

#### AHMED

So I order one for her as well.

#### MINI

Oh I'll have that as well as my coffee. I suppose, which I've already ordered.

##### [PLAYERS SNICKER]

#### MINI

But you know what? I love both. So yay!

#### ADEEB

Oh, you don't have any allergies or something, right?

#### MINI

Er --

#### ADEEB

Because I can taste, er, some nuts.

#### MINI

Not to anything on this planet, no.

#### ADEEB

_(laughs)_ All right.

#### LOWRI

Morgan, I imagine, heard that -- having noticed Mini's wonderful attire, will have been, you know, listening to the conversation, and will have heard you mention Vera so will probably come over a little tentatively and be like:

#### MORGAN

Hey, um, you're here to meet Vera as well?

#### MINI

Oh my gosh, yes! Yes!

#### MORGAN

Hi...

#### ADEEB

Hi.

#### MINI

Hi! I'm Mini, that's my name as well as, er, a description.

#### MORGAN

Ah!

#### MINI

What's your name?

#### MORGAN

I'm, er, Morgan. Morgan.

#### MINI

Oh, right.

#### MORGAN

Nice to meet you.

#### MINI

Hi, Morgan Morgan.

#### ADEEB

Hi Morgan.

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### AHMED

I, I just wave. I don't shake hands or anything, I just wave holding my very large cup.

#### ADEEB

Hi -- Adeeb! 

#### LOWRI

Morgan does what I just did and just kind of nods.

#### MORGAN

Ni-nice to meet you. So this is pretty cool, hey? I guess...

#### MINI

Er, yes.

#### ADEEB

TARGE. It's like -- big deal!

#### MINI

_(whispers)_ Right!

#### MORGAN

Yeah...

#### ADEEB

Wait, am I supposed to, like, I'm not sure what I'm supposed to say or not to say.

#### MINI

Hm. That's not a familiar feeling to me at all. 

##### [LOWRI SNICKERS]

#### MORGAN

Yeah, um, so, I guess, what can you guys do?

#### ADEEB

Oh, um, wait, are we supposed to be talking about this? 

#### AHMED

Um, I'm, I'm just stuck right now, I'm like, I'm not sure what to say and just keep quiet and just look to the ground. 

#### LOWRI

Oh, did I say -- oh, I've just realised this is going to be such an awkward conversation because Morgan also cannot interact with people! _(laughs)_

#### MINI

I'm a journalist! 

#### AHMED

And I have never told anyone aside my sister who I actually am or what I can do, and Mini is just connecting the guesses so I don't know if she has an even idea. 

#### LOWRI

Well I think Morgan has enough sense that maybe she's realised that she's committed a bit of a social faux-pas and is like:

#### MORGAN

Oh um, no, you know, it's, it's fine.

#### ADEEB

Oh, I'm, I'm really good with er, er, clothes and outfits.

#### MORGAN

I, I can see! You look great!

#### MINI

Like incredible!

#### MORGAN

Did you design, er -- Mini's, was it? Mini's outfit?

#### MINI

Oh! No, but that's how we met. I am a journalist but I also, er, sell shoes, and, er, Adeeb is, works through shoes pretty fast. 

##### [AHMED LAUGHS]

#### MORGAN

Oh!

#### MINI

Er, some would say suspiciously so!

#### ADEEB 

_(laughs)_ Shhh!

#### MINI

But wait, so that means that we, we end up like hanging out and we just got talking about style. And no, er, actually he didn't design this but I wish that he would design something for me --

#### ADEEB

Yeah, this is, this is all Mini!

#### MINI

That would be so cool. 

#### LOWRI

Morgan is suddenly realising: oh my gosh, everyone's gonna know each other and I don't know anyone. 

#### LYDIA

_(laughing)_ Aw!

#### LOWRI

She's a bit like:

#### MORGAN

Oh. Oh, great, so...

#### MINI

What do you do? Do you have a job?

#### MORGAN

Um, no...

#### MINI

Any hobbies?

#### MORGAN

Yeah, um --

#### MINI

Ooh, what are they?

#### MORGAN

Um, I actually, I have um, I, I, I'm quite green-fingered, I guess you could say.

#### MINI

Oh!

#### MORGAN

Um yeah I, I've got some plants. Like actually this fern -- like, this café has a lot of really nice, nice plants.

#### MINI

What's your favourite plant?

#### MORGAN

Oh, well, at the moment I've had a bit of a breakthrough with a fern, so.

#### MINI

Wow.

#### MORGAN

I'm actually quite partial to a fern at the moment, but um --

#### MINI

Oooh.

#### MORGAN

Yeah, I've got quite a lot of you know, succulents and things from all over the world really. 

#### LYDIA

Mini starts taking notes.

##### [SFX: Writing]

##### [Group laughter]

#### MINI

And so like, if you were to rank the top *ten* plants... 

#### MORGAN

Yeah...?

#### MINI

Like, with any facts that you just *wouldn't believe* if you weren't aware of plants, like, how would you do that?

##### [Group laughter] 

#### MORGAN

Um, well... 

##### [Music: Calm ambience]

#### LYDIA

This is gonna continue, by the way, like --

#### PIP

Oh, I hope so! _(laughs)_

#### MADDY

Yeah, we fade out and --

#### LOWRI

Lowri is so grateful because she's realising she's gonna have to learn about plants now! _(laughs)_

#### MADDY

The peril of any RPG character with an expertise that is not your own! I absolutely feel that!

Yeah, so yeah, as the camera pans away and the conversation fades into the background we can see that Joseph is still perched on top of this building opposite the coffee shop. 

##### [SFX: City Rooftop]

##### [Group laughter]

#### PIP

Yup. Been listening to the conversation so far, and I will switch off the mic --

##### [SFX: Flicking a switch]

-- and er, I'm gonna -- real quick, I'm just gonna tap my communicator and I'm gonna call, um, Aquila. 

##### [SFX: Comms pick-up chime]

#### AQUILA

_(On the communicator)_ Hello?

#### JOSEPH

Um, we're sure about this, right? 

#### AQUILA

Yes, of course. Why wouldn't you be?

#### JOSEPH

I just... and I tell them who, who I am, like...? 

#### AQUILA

Yes. This is what we've been training for, this is, this is your job. This is what you're for.

#### JOSEPH

Understood. Understood. Er, going in. I'll call when it's done. 

#### AQUILA

Good. 

#### PIP

And I'll sign off.

##### [SFX: Comms disconnection chime]

And sort of walk to the other -- not the side of the building that's facing the coffee shop, just hop to the other side and descend sort of three stories without a rope.

##### [SFX: Parkour noises]

##### [Group laughter]

#### LYDIA

Oooh!

#### PIP

Just sort of hopping between balconies and fire escapes and land in the street, and then pop through an alleyway and approach the coffee shop, obviously not in costume. Yeah, just, black jeans, shoes, like grey t-shirt, grey hoodie, like there's nothing, yeah. I don't even wanna describe what he's wearing because it's just so dull.

##### [LAUGHTER]

Yeah. And I'll stop at the door and, like, _(takes deep breath, as if to fortify himself)_ -- and then walk in. 

##### [SFX: Door opens and closes, bell jingles]

#### MADDY

All right, yes, you see this very awkward trio gathered at the bar.

#### LYDIA

We're not awkward! We're having a delightful conversation! Yeah!

#### PIP

Oh don't worry, I'm here to make this way less awkward, guys. Don't worry.

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

Mini's bringing the energy.

#### MORGAN

Yeah, and, um, I actually quite like snowdrops as well because they're really resilient --

#### MINI

Ooh!

#### MORGAN

-- like it's, it gets really cold and they still --

#### MINI

Yeah!

#### MORGAN

You know, they kind of come through the frosty ground and...

#### MINI

Well, that's lovely!

#### ADEEB

You know my family have like, er, date trees from our ancestral lands.

#### MORGAN

_(gasps)_ Oh wow!

#### MINI

Wow! 

#### AHMED

And I pick out three dates from my pocket.

##### [SFX: POCKET RUSTLING NOISES]

#### ADEEB

Do you wanna try?

#### MORGAN

Oh!

#### MINI 

_(gasps)_ I'd absolutely love to!

#### ADEEB

My mother doesn't let me leave the house without one.

#### MORGAN

Yes, yes please. 

#### AHMED

So I hand each one of them one. 

#### MADDY

Aww!

#### MINI

Thank you!

#### ADEEB

It's very sweet!

#### MORGAN

Thanks! 

#### LYDIA

Mini chows down. 

#### LOWRI

Yeah.

#### MINI 

_(with her mouth full)_ This is so good!

##### [LOWRI LAUGHS]

#### LYDIA

Mini wasn't aware that there was a seed inside, I'm gonna assume it's one of the whole ones and think -- and, like, there is a "crunch."

##### [Group laughter]

#### MINI

Oh! Oh, OK!

#### ADEEB

Oh! Ew, your teeth are gonna hurt!

#### MINI

Are they? Are they gonna hurt? OK. Ow! My teeth hurt!

##### [Group laughter]

#### ADEEB

It's really solid and like you, I don't think you can bite through them, no! 

#### LYDIA

Oh I, I know, I've got a, I'm getting through my -- it's the time of year for dates, we have a stack of them and I just hurt my tooth on one this morning, so... 

##### [AHMED LAUGHS]

#### LYDIA

This is method acting! 

#### [LOWRI LAUGHS]

#### LYDIA

Lowri, where you're like, "Oh, I'm gonna have new expertise". No, no. Just, just build on what happened to you today! 

#### LOWRI

_(laughs)_ Yeah, good, that is what I should have done!

#### LYDIA

Anyway, Mini's delighted by the, by the gift. 

#### LOWRI

Morgan is, feels a bit more at ease now that it's, it's like you've extended a hand of friendship and it's lovely.

#### MORGAN

Thanks, Adeeb.

#### ADEEB

You're welcome. 

#### MADDY

Is Joseph just kind of loitering at the edge of this conversation? I'd like to know!

#### PIP

Yeah, completely unnoticed!

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### PIP

Just standing in the doorway. No, I think Joseph will, will walk in very sort of quietly, order a coffee and then go sit down at a table and will wait for this, very late now, I assume "Vera" person to show up.

##### [LOWRI SNICKERS]

#### PIP

It's extremely unprofessional!

##### [AFFIRMING NOISES FROM PLAYERS]

#### MADDY

Yeah it's very unprofessional, it's about ten past, it's -- tut-tut, it's not looking good. But yes, after a few more minutes of conversation about dates and plants and all kinds of lovely things, you see a very harassed-looking young Black woman walk through the door.

##### [SFX: Door opens and closes, bell jingles]

She's got a very smart grey suit on and a lanyard, and around the lanyard you can see that there is the initials of TARGE kind of repeated across the fabric. And she kind of glances around and, and recognises the group of three instantly. And is like:

#### VERA

Oh, um, I'm so sorry I'm late. There was um, there were some statistics on crime and the, that we had to go over and, yeah, my colleagues love talking about everything. I'm Vera, it's lovely to meet you. I assume that you are Morgan, Mini and Adeeb?

#### ADEEB

Oh, yeah.

#### MINI

Hi! Yeah!

#### MORGAN

Yeah, hi.

#### ADEEB

Hi.

#### VERA

Yeah, it's great to meet you. Er, have you seen a young man anywhere, goes by the name of Joseph? 

#### MADDY

And she's looking around and like she, like, you are in her eyeline as she's just glancing right over you. _(laughs)_

#### PIP

If there's a moment where she's kind of looking around, I will like just lift a hand slightly off the table in a "hey" kind of gesture.

#### VERA

Ah. 

#### LYDIA

Are you so nondescript and is this such a subtle gesture that we don't all necessarily notice immediately? 

#### PIP

Potentially, that's, that's up to you guys. It's just, I'm only trying to get Vera's attention. 

#### LYDIA

Hmm. 

#### MADDY

Yeah, Vera definitely spots you and says, like:

#### VERA

Oh! Great! Um, yeah. Lovely to meet you, I'm Vera.

#### JOSEPH

Er, Joseph.

#### VERA

Great, yeah, why don't you come on over and let's er, why don't we actually take this to the HQ so we can speak freely? Um, just follow me. 

#### MADDY

And she leads you all out of the coffee shop.

##### [SFX: Door opens, bell jingles] 

#### AHMED

I finish whatever rest of my cup --

##### [MADDY SNICKERS]

#### AHMED

-- and just leave it so I don't take it with me!

#### MADDY

Yeah! 

#### LYDIA

I've still got two drinks because I ordered a coffee and then, and then Adeeb ordered me a hot chocolate so... um.

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LOWRI

You can mix it and make a mocha! 

#### PIP

Oh hell yeah. 

#### LYDIA

Yeah, Mini's gonna walk out carrying both coffee mugs.

##### [Group laughter]

#### MADDY

Yeah, the man behind the bar's gonna be like:

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Um, excuse me, but --

#### MINI

Oh, yes?

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Um --

#### MINI

Could I have these to go?

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Yes, I will need to pour them into different cups.

#### MINI

Oh, right, OK

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

Sorry. 

#### MADDY

Yeah, and Vera kinds of waits patiently for this transaction to happen

##### [SFX: Pouring] 

#### LYDIA

While, while he's doing that, Mini will take notes about this interaction. And is like -- ooh, yeah.

##### [SFX: Writing] 

#### MADDY

"Cannot take mugs out of coffee shop."

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

It's useful to know because they're the same mugs everywhere, so you would think that they were interchangeable. 

#### LOWRI

Mm. 

#### LYDIA

Turns out they're --

#### PIP

Well given how overpriced I'm assuming the coffee was you'd be safe to assume --

#### LYDIA

Yeah, I thought it came with a free mug! 

#### PIP

-- you were also buying the mug!

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

Right? Makes sense, makes sense. But you know. 

#### MADDY

Absolutely. 

#### LYDIA

Learn a new thing every day. 

#### MADDY

Absolutely. And as you make your way out of the coffee shop following Vera to your new career, we shall take a short break and will be right back.

##### [SFX: Door closes] 

------

##### [SFX: City Street]



#### MADDY

And we're back. So Vera leads you across the street down a couple of smaller alleyways and you find yourself in front of this chrome glass *monstrosity.* It is the most modern version of brutalism you've ever seen. It is both intimidating and interesting to look at.

And she takes her lanyard and passes it in front of the card reader, and the doors swing open.

##### [SFX: Beep, door opens; TARGE Lobby interior, people talking quietly, gentle piano]

As you're looking at the entrance there's absolutely no signage whatsoever, it is completely blank. Nothing to indicate what it is. And then as soon as you enter you're like -- ah! 

##### [SFX: Door closes]

This is, this is where all the branding is. There are massive letters saying "TARGE" behind the reception desk, there are these really moody, like, Hollywood black-and-white headshots of superheroes just all through the lobby. 

#### LYDIA

Oooh... 

#### MADDY

And as you would know, the superheroes of Chapter are kind of categorised into generations -- the oldest one being golden, then silver, then bronze and modern. And TARGE is very proud of its long history of working with superheroes, so you can see one of the golden age superheroes, the Tremendous Titan, who was a huge woman with fists made of rock --

##### [LOWRI GASPS]

#### MADDY

-- and she was probably active in, like, the 50s or 60s. 

#### LYDIA

For reference, what date are we in? 

#### MADDY

Um, present day. 

#### LYDIA

Right, OK. 

#### MADDY

You can also see one of the silver age superheroes, Brilliance, who is exuding a bright, shimmering light. The bronze age superhero -- who are those ones who were born in the 70s and 80s -- this is Chanteur, who is a lithe man in the middle of singing, with pulses of energy just shooting out from his mouth. And then there's one from the modern generation, so people born in the 90s and later. This is a very young person with short cropped hair whose hand is just reaching inside a computer screen as though it's permeable. And you would all know that this is one of the hottest new superheroes, Upgrade.

And so Vera takes you over to a set of very angular sofas and armchairs in the corner of the lobby. 

#### LOWRI

Can I ask, is there anyone else that we might recognise who would have their photo up on that hall? 

#### MADDY

Um... 

#### LOWRI

Any familiar silhouettes? 

#### MADDY

Not any that are relevant to your backstories, necessarily. _(laughs)_

#### LOWRI

OK! Then Morgan just is looking round, quite content. 

#### MADDY

Yeah. This is the, this is very much just the kind of general famous popular superheroes that everyone would know.

#### LOWRI & PIP

Mm-hm. 

#### MADDY

And so Vera takes you over to this little corner of the lobby with some very uncomfortable-looking armchairs and sofas and sits you all down --

##### [SFX: Furniture squeaks]

And she looks at you all and says:

#### VERA

Right, so um, I think some introductions are in order now that we don't necessarily have to be as secretive as we are out in public. So Joseph, why don't you tell us a little bit about yourself, what kind of abilities you have, how you think you can help TARGE in the, in the superhero industry.

#### JOSEPH

Um...

#### PIP

I just kind of stare at these people. Like, this is, this is my nightmare! 

#### LOWRI

Aw!

#### JOSEPH

Um, er, Joseph, and, er, I --

#### PIP

And I'm sort of trying to vaguely avoid eye contact with, with Morgan a little bit in this moment, but. 

#### LOWRI

I mean, she's looking at you quite intently.

#### JOSEPH

I go by, er, "Zenith." I'm very well-trained and I don't think you would have contacted me if you didn't think I could help.

#### VERA

Of course, yeah.

#### JOSEPH

I'm fairly certain you already know what I can do.

#### VERA

Yes, absolutely. Um, just for the benefit of your team mates would you be able to explain a little.

#### JOSEPH

Like I said I'm, I'm well-trained.

#### VERA

Do you have any weapon specialties?

#### JOSEPH

Er, stealth, infiltration, surveillance, hand-to-hand combat. 

#### LOWRI

Would you have given your name, Zenith, when you came to the library? 

#### PIP

Er, yeah. Maybe. 

#### LOWRI

I guess, oh actually we would know, the public knows who Zenith is --

#### PIP

Yeah, Zenith has, Zenith, yes. He's not a very public-facing superhero --

#### LOWRI

Yeah...

#### PIP

-- but it has come up. So, so yeah. That would be, that would be er, that's why he's not looking at you. 

#### LOWRI

Then Morgan is just gonna be like:

#### MORGAN

I know you! 

#### LOWRI

Overjoyed!

##### [Group laughter]

#### AHMED

Same thing from Adeeb. But he doesn't do anything he's just, his face is like it's you!

#### MORGAN

You, you came, you came to our house!

#### JOSEPH

Er, yeah.

#### MORGAN

Did you tell them about me, is that how they know about me?

#### JOSEPH

No, I -- no. No, I didn't say, I didn't tell anyone anything. That's, that's against the rules.

#### MORGAN

_(quietly)_ Cool.

#### MINI

Um, can I ask who makes the rules? 

##### [LOWRI LAUGHS]

#### JOSEPH

What?

#### MINI

Just, you said "against the rules" and you know, I'm just interested in, in learning who makes the rules.

#### JOSEPH

I just... I just meant you don't give away other people's secrets.

#### MINI

OK, and that's a rule?

#### JOSEPH

Su-sure.

#### MINI

OK!

#### LOWRI

I can see the pen and paper in your hand, like, in my mind!

##### [Group laughter] 

#### LYDIA

Ironically I'm the one taking the least notes from what I can see on the camera screen!

#### VERA

Um, great, yes, good to know. And Morgan, how about you? What's your speciality? Do you have a hero name yet?

#### MORGAN

Um, a hero? Well no, I mean I'm not... er. I don't think I'm a her-... er, so I'm, I'm strong.

#### VERA

Good, yes.

#### MORGAN

Yeah.

#### VERA

Always useful.

#### MORGAN

Really strong. And can get more strong.

#### VERA

Yes. I obviously don't want to reveal anything that you'd be uncomfortable with, but I do feel like trust among your teammates is an important thing to foster this early in the relationship, so if you could offer a bit more of an explanation of how you get stronger then that would be very helpful. 

#### LOWRI

OK. Are there -- are there any plants around? 

#### MADDY

Yes, there are some very sort of spiky-looking succulents. 

#### LOWRI

Hm. Presumably the furniture is nice and heavy? _(laughs)_ For this? 

#### MADDY

Yeah! 

#### LOWRI

So Morgan will like just really really, just bend down, really easily just like lift the sofa that two people are sitting on, like one side of it.

##### [SFX: Lifting sofa]

#### MINI

Ooh!

#### ADEEB

Er--! 

#### LYDIA

_(laughs)_ I think, yeah, Adeeb and Mini would have been sitting on the same sofa and like just been lifted up like:

#### MINI

Ooh! Interesting! Ooh! 

#### LOWRI

But only one side at this point. And then will touch one of the succulents, which will lose its colour a little bit, and then she will just so easily just lift the sofa completely above her head, yeah, one-handed. 

##### [SFX: Lifting couch]

#### MINI

Whoah!

#### ADEEB

OK! So this is how it feels to ride a camel!

#### MINI

Ah! That's really amazing!

#### MORGAN

Oh just, just -- 

#### LOWRI

No strain in her voice at all.

#### MORGAN

-- oh um, I've never ridden a camel. But, yeah!

#### ADEEB

Oh yeah, my grandfather has one. And I don't wanna go on it, so--!

##### [Group laughter]

#### MORGAN

Oh! Sorry! 

#### LOWRI

And then she'll just put you down a little bit hurriedly, jolts you a bit.

##### [SFX: Sharp thud]

#### ADEEB

OK, thank you!

#### MORGAN

Yeah so um, yeah. I can take energy from living things.

#### MINI

*All* living things...?

#### MORGAN

Yeah but I don't really like to -- I mean, people, it's a bit, you know --

#### MINI

Yeah.

#### MORGAN

It's a bit trickier. Um. Well, it's not trickier, it's, um, it's just more complicated.

#### VERA

Well thank you for sharing that, that's very good information to have. And so Mini.

#### MINI

Mhm?

#### VERA

How about you?

#### MINI

Er, I am a journalist and I sell shoes. 

##### [AHMED LAUGHS]

#### VERA

Yes. Er, from your background check those are both true.

#### MINI

Mhm.

#### VERA

But I'm looking for more... superheroic elements that are the reason that we brought you in.

#### MINI

Um... well I, you know, I don't like to make, you know I don't, I don't like to make that big a, a thing of it, but like, um...

#### LYDIA

And Mini will reach out to the succulent that has lost some of its colour and will, like, manipulate -- like, she can control matter but like, exactly *how* is kind of blurry. So like, she just sort of elongates it. So it's not like it's growing but it's like sort of, as if it were putty or clay, like, summons it to grow a bit longer. 

##### [SFX: Succulent stretching]

And like, you know there's just like small things and with the other hand just somehow alters the way that the light is coming through the window --

##### [SFX: Ethereal chimes]

So that they seem to kind of, the rays gather and glitter in her hand, and then sort of -- as if her hand were a mirror -- then kind of shoots it off like a, like a laser.

##### [SFX: Shooting light, whoosh]

##### [MORGAN GASPS]

#### MINI

You know, just like normal things.

##### [Group laughter]

#### MINI

Like, but it's not really, it's not, it's not really that worth mentioning. Mhm. 

#### LOWRI

Does it hit anything? 

#### LYDIA

Possibly... 

##### [AHMED LAUGHS]

#### MADDY

What we could is an "Unleash Your Powers" roll and see what happens? 

#### LOWRI

Oh! 

#### PIP

Yeahhh! Dice! Dice! Dice! 

#### LYDIA

So for the benefit of listeners, not for me that hasn't forgotten, I roll two D6s, right? 

#### MADDY

Yes. Two D6 and add your Freak Stat. 

#### LYDIA

OK.

#### PIP

I'm guessing that's pretty low for you, right?

##### [Group laughter]

##### [DICE ROLLS]

#### LYDIA

7 and, it's like plus 1, you know so that's an 8. It's like yeah, because yeah, totally a normal human. 

#### MADDY

So yes, it absolutely does work, but unfortunately as you direct this beam of light it catches a bit of paper on the receptionist's desk and it just starts to smoke and catch fire.

##### [SFX: Paper catches fire]

#### MINI

Um... give me a second! 

#### LYDIA

Mini runs over and --

##### [MINI PANTS AS SHE starts trying to blow the flames out]

##### [LAUGHTER FROM PLAYERS]

#### LYDIA

Trying to just blow the fire out but it does actually just add- 

#### LOWRI

Oxygen! _(laughs)_

#### LYDIA

Yeah, it just adds oxygen and it gets worse and eventually Mini is standing on the desk, stamping it out.

##### [SFX: Fire worsens; stamping on desk] 

#### MADDY

The receptionist reaches behind and grabs like a massive fire extinguisher and just, *whoosh.* Just absolutely sprays it into oblivion.

##### [SFX: Fire extinguisher hisses]

And is just like --

#### RECEPTIONIST

It's, it's all right, these things happen all the time, honestly.

#### MINI

Oh, right, sure, yeah. Because I, like, it's just a normal thing. 

#### LYDIA

Mini hops down onto the ground and walks back.

##### [SFX: Gentle thud]

#### MINI

Yeah, but like, er, my real interests are investigative journalism, um, and hitting my targets at the shoes shop.

#### VERA

Great! 

#### LOWRI

Oh, I love Mini so much!

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### VERA

Well, good to know. Actually, investigative skills are useful in this line of work.

#### MINI

Mhm.

#### VERA

So that will put you in good stead. I'm not sure about the shoes, but any experience is good, I suppose.

#### MINI

From what I've heard and working with Adeeb, er, you're gonna need a lot of high-quality shoes.

##### [ADEEB clears his throat loudly]

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### VERA

Oh, yes, all right. Um, yeah, Adeeb.

#### ADEEB

Yes?

#### VERA

What can you tell us about your, your abilities?

#### ADEEB

I can control textiles. Like anything that is threaded or woven. 

#### AHMED

And you see from my backpack, a white ribbon starts to float and then starts wrapping around my arms.

##### [SFX: Fabric manipulation]

#### VERA

Wow!

#### MINI

This actually makes a lot of sense.

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

Having seen you go into changing rooms and, like, come out in a completely different outfit when you didn't take those clothes in.

#### ADEEB

Er, you noticed.

##### [MORE LAUGHTER]

#### MINI

Yeah...

#### ADEEB

But I can't control stuff like leather because it's just one piece of something, it's not threaded or woven at all.

#### VERA

Right, yeah. That makes sense. And I understand that you've been active already as a, as a hero?

#### ADEEB

Yes. I've been, like I'm not really active, just, like, doing one specific thing, I'm tracking one person. So not much. But if anything happens along the way, I mean, I'm gonna stop and help.

#### VERA

Oh, um, one specific thing. Would you be able to share anything about that?

#### ADEEB

Well, I'm trying to help one villain just to stop and go, you know, stop being a bad guy. And I've been trying to chase after him for a while. But if it just happens along the way I'm trying to track him something happens, I help, but...

#### VERA

Oh right, OK. I take it there's some kind of personal reason there?

#### ADEEB

Yeah. He needs help. It's -- he just needs help.

#### VERA

I understand, yeah. It can be difficult when personal relationships intermingle with this kind of work and I commend you for trying to help, but I also caution you that mixing these worlds can get complicated.

#### ADEEB

Yeah, I, I understand, but -- like, come on, if the police catch him he's gonna go to prison, nobody's gonna try to help him out and he's gonna just rot in jail. Like, if I can reach him before that and try to pull him out of it and stop and go in the right path, you know, it's better.

#### MORGAN

Yes, yes it is. People should be helped, people shouldn't just be left to, you know...

#### ADEEB

Yeah.

#### MORGAN

Whatever. 

#### LOWRI

Morgan retreats a bit into herself, she's said a bit too much. 

#### LYDIA

So -- Mini's got her pen out.

#### MINI

So imprisoned people just rot, is that--?

##### [Group laughter]

#### VERA

I believe that that was metaphorical.

#### MINI

So they metaphorically rot. That, that is also bad. OK, thank you.

#### VERA

Yeah, the prison industrial complex is really a massive issue that we can't get into right now, er --

#### MINI

OK!

#### LYDIA

Keeps taking notes...

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### VERA

All right, so er -- 

#### AHMED

Oh er, I'm -- I pull out my mask and put it on and --

##### [SFX: Pulling out mask]

#### ADEEB

I'm The Turban.

#### MORGAN

I've seen you!

#### MINI

That, that, that does make a lot of sense! 

#### AHMED

And I hold up the blue turban that I put on my head.

#### MINI

Really, I didn't, I didn't put two and two together. Really I should have. Should have got there. 

#### MORGAN

You um, you did a great job against those er, those burglars last week. Well done.

#### ADEEB

Ah, thank you. If it wasn't for the collateral damage... _(voice trails off)_ _(clears throat)_ Yeah I, I did my best.

#### MINI

Er, is this a team that is trying to fix the prison industrial complex or are we doing the rescuing people thing or like, what are the, what are your aims and objectives?

#### VERA

Yes, so, that is a very good question. You will be starting off on the more, um, on the more low-pressure missions. There are some kind of lower level supervillains that we may need some help with managing and containing. We may need some help with civilians who get into dangerous situations and need a hand. In general, going on a variety of different missions including, er, neutralising supervillain threats, doing reconnaissance, doing rescue missions, all that kind of thing. Sometimes you'll be ask to retrieve something that is important to the government's goals.

And yeah, in general it's about keeping people safe and er, looking at your background checks and everything it looks like you're already well on your way to do that so, welcome to the team.

#### MORGAN

Um, will there be, like, er, training? I mean I, I, you know, obviously I've trained myself but like, this is very new to me, I've never done actual hero-ing before.

#### VERA

Oh yeah, absolutely there will be plenty of opportunity for training. We have incredible training facilities here at HQ both for combat and investigation, reconnaissance, rescue, emergency situations, all that kind of stuff, so.

#### MORGAN

And do we get like a say in what we're tackling, like who, like what missions we take or--?

#### MINI

Yeah, for instance I would actually quite like to get to the heart of this prison industrial complex issue because that sounds like a really good place to start, like, maybe we could look at funding that instead of sending people to jail?

##### [LAUGHTER FROM PLAYERS]

#### MINI

Er, in a way that everyone accepts is not gonna help them?

#### VERA

Well, that is a very noble goal--

#### MINI

Mhm.

#### VERA

And I applaud you for that, but really we are focused on supervillains and threats that can only be dealt with by people with super abilities.

#### MINI

I see. Interesting.

#### VERA

Er, perhaps it will come up? I can't promise that.

#### MINI

Mhm.

##### [Group laughter]

#### VERA

We'll have to see. But yes, you are very welcome to take advantage of our training facilities, and actually before we do anything else I would very much like to take you to our warehouse. 

#### MADDY

And she gets you all up --

##### [SFX: Standing]

-- and starts leading you down this corridor towards, towards these massive metal doors, and she presses a button and they slide open.

##### [SFX: Corridor interior; pressing button, doors sliding open]

And as you look down this huge cavernous room, there are just shelves and shelves of weapons, costumes, devices, gadgets, just every single resource you could possibly need is there.

And that's where we're gonna end the episode for today. Thank you so much for listening to this episode of *Chapter and Multiverse.* I would now like to ask our fantastic players where we can find you on the internet and if you have anything to plug, starting with Lydia. 

#### LYDIA

Hi, I'm Lydia, you can find me on Twitter @LydNicholas and you can follow my famous chickens in their antics --

#### LOWRI

Yay! 

#### PIP

_(less enthusiastically)_ Yay! 

#### LYDIA

-- on @urbanchooks. _(laughs)_ Everyone's like, "Woo!" 

#### PIP

Woo! 

#### LYDIA

I'm complicated! 

#### PIP

Chickens!

#### LYDIA

Figures of admiration! They are actually quite complicated, one of them is a horrible bully.

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### LYDIA

Um, anyway, yes, do that. Woo! 

#### LOWRI

Yay! 

#### PIP

Oh well done, you've ruined chickens!

##### [Group laughter] 

#### LOWRI

Noooo! 

#### LYDIA

They were always morally ambiguous, you just didn't wanna look close enough. 

##### [PIP SNICKERS]

#### MADDY

Yeah... and Ahmed? 

#### AHMED

Hi everyone, I'm Ahmed Aljbray. You can find me at mr_aljbray almost everywhere. I'm usually on Twitter and right now I'm doing Ramadan, so Ramadan Mubarak to everyone who's listening! That's it. 

#### LYDIA

Ramadan Mubarak! 

#### MADDY

And Lowri? 

#### LOWRI

Yay! Er, I am on Twitter @LowriTweets, one day I will tweet...

##### [Group laughter] 

#### PIP

Your Twitter handle is a lie!

#### LOWRI

It is a lie! I'm building up to it, you know! Oh god, that's gonna put so much pressure on my first proper tweet.

##### [MORE LAUGHTER]

#### LOWRI

And also, listen to *Enthusigasm,* one of the other great, it's like, it's like an audible hug.

#### PIP & MADDY

Aw! 

#### LOWRI

Rusty Quill's audible hug.

##### [Group laughter] 

#### PIP

It's also a good name for a show! 

#### LOWRI

It is! 

#### MADDY

And Pip? 

#### PIP

Hi, I'm Pip. You can find me @Pip_Gladwin on Twitter and doing other stuff here on Rusty Quill or at Realms of Peril and Glory, and probably some other stuff too. I'll be tweeting about it because that's all I do! 

#### LOWRI

Yay! And I'll be re-tweeting it. 

#### ALL

Yay! 

#### MADDY

Yeah! And you can find me on Twitter @maddy_abstract where there are links to all the various things that I do.

And we hope to see you next time on *Chapter and Multiverse,* but until then, from all of us here in the space between worlds: goodbye! 

#### EVERYONE

Goodbye! 

#### THE ETERNAL TAVERN KEEPER

*Chapter and Multiverse* is a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill and licensed under a creative commons attribution, non-commercial share alike 4.0 international license. It is directed by Maddy Searle and produced by Natasha Johnston with Executive Producers Alexander J Newall and April Sumner. The Eternal Tavern Keeper was played by Karim Kronfli. This episode was edited by Lowri Ann Davies, Tessa Vroom, and Maddy Searle with music by Nico Vettese. Thank you for listening. 