---
layout:          post
title:           "SEAS 7 - Shore Leave"
date:            2022-10-18 11:00:00 -0400
episode_type:      episode
tags:            []
voiced:          [Alestes, Noor, Siva, Inez, Baker, Gabe]
categories:			"tf"
podcasts: ["tf"]
title_prefix:	"SEAS"
prev_categories: ["tf"]
prev_prefixes: ["SEAS"]
prev_episode:	['0061-belowdecks5']
prev_episode_num:		['006.1']
prev_episode_title:		["Below Decks 5 - Found Family in Queer POC Narrative"]
next_categories: ["tf"]
next_prefixes: ["SEAS"]
next_episode:	['0071-belowdecks6']
next_episode_num:		['007.1']
next_episode_title:		["Below Decks 6 - Decolonizing the Museum"]
episode_title:   'Shore Leave'
episode_number:  '007'
summary:         "Herring & Marnock Esq’s Dictionary of Nautical and Pyratical Terms, 1849: shore・leave: free time awarded to officers and crew of a naval vessel when they are off duty and allowed to disembark and spend time on land<br/><br/>In which treasure is excavated, turtles are debated, and a parting is remembered."
content_flags:   ["Bullying", "Arguments", "SFX:  Kissing, Eating, Shouting, Loud water"]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/trice-forgotten/seas-7-shore-leave
formats:
official:        true
---

##### [SHOW THEME -- INTRO] 

#### GAMMON

Rusty Quill Presents: Trice Forgotten.

Episode Seven: Shore Leave.

##### [THEME FADES OUT]

##### [EXT. BEACH OF A SMALL ISLAND IN THE INDIAN OCEAN. MORNING.]

##### [A FEW MOMENTS OF THIS PEACE. AND THEN:]

#### ALESTES

Come on, you miserable worms, get up!

##### [SHE SLAPS SOMEONE LIGHTLY. GROANS RESOUND]

Honestly, you haul one little boat to shore...

#### NOOR

It was heavy, Captain. 

#### SIVA

I think I've dislocated my shoulder. 

#### INEZ

I can taste my own *teeth.*

#### ALESTES

Now -- "what are we doing on this shallow spit of land with nary a convenient mooring spot in sight?" I hear you ask.

#### INEZ

Developing a hernia?

#### ALESTES

My crew! Nay -- my friends --

#### INEZ

Susmaryosep... [Translation: portmanteau of Jesus, Mary, Joseph, with the meaning 'give me strength']

#### ALESTES

The day has come. The day me and you -- but mostly me -- have long dreamed of. For I have procured something *very* special indeed -- two somethings, in fact. Two very special somethings that will lead us... to TREASURE.

##### [WITH A FLOURISH, SHE PRODUCES TWO ITEMS FROM UNDER HER CLOAK.]

##### [THERE IS A LENGTHY SILENCE.]

#### SIVA

Are those... sea turtles?

#### NOOR

I find your sense of humour perplexing at times, Captain.

#### ALESTES

It's not a joke! These are *treasure-finding* turtles.

##### [BEAT] 

#### INEZ

Noor, you pin her arms down -- Siva, look around for some vines or something --

#### ALESTES

_(talking over him)_ Using turtles to find treasure is a long and storied tradition amongst folks who sail under... _(delicately)_  certain flags. 

#### SIVA

_(stage whisper)_ Pirates! She means pirates! 

#### ALESTES

It is said --

#### SIVA

Because she used to *be* a pirate! 

#### ALESTES

It is *said* that a pair of mating turtles, fed a tiny nugget of treasure, will settle at the spot where gold is laid.

#### SIVA

Aw. Quite romantic, really.

#### NOOR

But if what you say is true -- how is it that every sea from here to the Caribbean has not been fished dry of turtles?

#### ALESTES

You can't just use any old turtle.

#### NOOR

...No?

#### ALESTES

No! They have to be bonded, heart and soul, with the person who raised them.

#### NOOR

...Inez, about those vines --

#### ALESTES

Two turtles fed with a tiny piece of gold on a pirate captain's lap will lead you to treasure, I've seen it!

#### SIVA

You've... seen it?

#### ALESTES

Saw the gold come out of the ground, plain as day. Glittering. Like a better tomorrow.

##### [ANOTHER BEAT]

#### SIVA

Well! I... suppose it's not... inconceivable that certain species of *Chelonioidea* might develop sensitivity to... certain metals.

#### NOOR

Erm. _(struggling)_ Stranger things have occurred in nature... salmon return to their native waters to spawn... dung beetles follow the path of the Milky Way... it *could* be scientifically...

_(gives up)_ Inez?

#### INEZ

I think it's bollocks. 

#### ALESTES

Too bad I'm not giving anyone a choice. Let's split into two teams and take a turtle each, I suggest --

#### SIVA

I'll go with Noor!

#### ALESTES

_(pause)_ Right then. I suppose that leaves me and... 

#### INEZ

I'm not digging. _(walks away, calls back)_ And I'm not talking to a turtle either!

_(groaning)_ Ooh, there had better be gold.

##### [LIGHT, DRUMMY TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

##### [EXT. JUNGLE OF THE SAME SMALL ISLAND. MORNING.]

#### SIVA

...and then I'll buy a complete set of *Encyclopaedia Britannica* -- you know it's nearly twenty volumes now?! I must confess, I do have a modest little daydream of one day contributing something to it myself, so I think owning it is a wise first step. Oh, that is, of course, if there's room for it in our house.

#### NOOR

"Our" house? 

#### SIVA

You, me, Alestes, Inez and Baker! We'll find a little cottage somewhere.

##### [NOOR CHUCKLES]

#### NOOR

Siva. If we really do find treasure, do you imagine Alestes will want to set eyes on any of us again?

#### SIVA

Oh. Well. No... no, of course, I suppose...

But you and I could --

##### [HE STOPS ABRUPTLY, EMBARRASSED]

##### [STICKY INSECT HUM]

#### NOOR

It hardly matters. You know as well as I do that this plan is... dubious, to say the least.

#### SIVA

Oh, but imagine, Noor! Imagine that we find the gold -- what would you do with your share? My guess is that you would buy yourself a boat and go sailing every day across the islands, and then in the evening bring back *all manner* of fascinating flora and fauna --

#### NOOR

_(a sigh)_ Back to "our" house? 

#### SIVA

Well... yes. If -- if you want... 

##### [NOOR EXHALES. IT SOUNDS CONFLICTED]

#### NOOR

Siva... you know I -- I value your company, but... 

#### SIVA

Look! Snails!

##### [FOOTSTEPS AWAY]

#### NOOR

_(to themself)_ Ay. That boy. 

#### SIVA

These will make a *fine* addition to my collection! Do you see? Much smaller shells than the Architectonica -- from *my* reading, I believe them to be of the genus Helicarionidae -- of course I shan't know for certain until I'm back on the ship and can verify it in Mr Blair's book. The most interesting thing about this family is their use of "love darts" during their courtships -- 

#### NOOR

You better go now!

#### SIVA

Go where?

#### NOOR

Back to the ship. To verify the snails. 

#### SIVA

Oh. But -- we're supposed to -- 

#### NOOR

I am capable of carrying out this wild goose chase on my own. _(inhales)_ I'm sure *you* could make better use of your time elsewhere.

#### SIVA

But I don't mind if we just -- 

#### NOOR

Siva, please.

##### [A QUIET, SAD STRAIN OF STRING MUSIC]

#### SIVA

Yes. I see. Yes. I will -- take my leave. 

##### [SIVA LEAVES HURRIEDLY]

#### NOOR

Oh, Allah. _(shaky)_ Give me strength.

##### [EXT. THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ISLAND. NOON.]

##### [ALESTES AND INEZ DIGGING]

#### INEZ

_(straining)_ Anything? 

#### ALESTES

_(straining)_ Not yet. 

#### INEZ

Qué sorpresa.

#### ALESTES

Look, it's here, alright? We just haven't found it yet. 

##### [THEY CONTINUE DIGGING AND PANTING]

#### INEZ

You'd be better off letting me -- have all those turtles for my collection. 

#### ALESTES

You're not butchering them, Inez. 

#### INEZ

Conserving! I *conserve* animals. 

#### ALESTES

Either way, you're not having them. 

#### INEZ

What makes you so certain there's treasure on this island anyway?

##### [DIGGING NOISES DECREASE BY HALF]

...Alestes. Whose treasure are we looking for?

#### ALESTES

_(mumbles)_ Gammon.

#### INEZ

What? 

#### ALESTES

Gammon! Alright? We're looking for Gammon's treasure, which is definitely on this island.

#### INEZ

Of *all* the... 

#### ALESTES

Now, before you go off on one -- 

#### INEZ

I don't know which stupidity to be angry at first! The fact that this is an obvious trap! Or the fact that if we did by some oblique chance *find* treasure belonging to a man nicknamed "Gammon," you'd be painting a target on our backs so wide it could be seen from the moon! 

#### ALESTES

It's here! And when we find it, we'll have enough riches to retire to a beach on the other side of the world before he knows it! 

#### INEZ

I can't believe you would be so stupid as to trust -- 

#### ALESTES

You don't know him! 

#### INEZ

Just misunderstood, is he? 

#### ALESTES

*No,* he's a rotten sack of potato mould masquerading as a man, but that's not the point!

...He likes me.

##### [INEZ LAUGHS, INCREDULOUS]

#### INEZ

He likes you?

#### ALESTES

You wouldn't understand. 

#### INEZ

It's not me that has trouble comprehending human emotion, "Captain."

#### ALESTES

Ha! I've yet to hear a single personal fact about yourself. Siva's always going on about his Nani, even Noor tells stories about Aden, but you -- you seem to have sprung fully formed out of a pit of bile with *no* human attachment whatsoever! 

#### INEZ

You know nothing about my family. 

#### ALESTES

Go on, then. What did the illustrious de Lunas do to fail to live up to your impossible standards? 

#### INEZ

My impossible standards? You expect us to work every hour of the day while *constantly* endangering our lives, not lifting a finger to help! 

#### ALESTES

Misdirection! 

##### [A CRASH]

##### [INEZ SNARLS IN ANNOYANCE]

#### INEZ

You know what? I will tell you one thing about my past: I thought my last master was the worst I could ever have. I was wrong. 

##### [BEAT]

#### ALESTES

This is pointless. It must be further inland.

##### [TRANSITIONAL MUSIC, LIGHT DRUMS AND FLUTES]

##### [INT. THE GALLEY OF THE *NETA.* MIDDAY.]

#### SIVA

Sorry, sorry! Didn't mean to intrude. 

#### BAKER

No intrusion. I'm just writing. 

#### SIVA

I'll just go back to my bunk and... 

##### [THAT SAD, HIGH STRAIN OF STRINGS AGAIN]

#### BAKER

Anything you'd like to talk about, Siva? 

#### SIVA

No, no, I'll let you get on.

#### BAKER

Are you *sure?* Because I can do this later.

##### [BEAT]

##### [PULSING MUSIC STARTS AS SIVA BURSTS]

#### SIVA

Well, it's Noor! I don't understand it, really I don't -- I try and try, I bring them things, and they seem to like my company but then as soon as I press the point in any way they stop talking, and tell me to go somewhere else! I would be distraught to learn I was causing them any kind of discomfort and much of the time that does not seem to be the case, but then they simply clam up out of nowhere and I...

I don't know what to do.

##### [MUSIC FADES OUT]

#### BAKER

A heavy matter indeed. Unrequited love. 

#### SIVA

Well, I -- I don't know about *love* exactly, certainly I admire them -- 

#### BAKER

But they... don't always respond how you'd like?

#### SIVA

That's exactly it! _(sighs)_ I'm at my wit's end. I'll -- just have to try something else. If only they would *tell me* what they want... 

#### BAKER

You know, I've been to a lot of places, and I hope to go many more before I pass on. But one thing has remained the same no matter where I travelled: people rarely say exactly what they want.

#### SIVA

But it would be so much easier if they did!

##### [BAKER CHUCKLES]

#### BAKER

Of course. How can I explain?

Ah. Now -- who do you think I'm writing to? 

#### SIVA

I-I -- don't know. _(audible frown)_ I suppose I have never considered that our crew might have attachments outside of the ship. 

#### BAKER

I'm writing to my -- husband. 

#### SIVA

Your -- *husband?*

#### BAKER

Gabe. He's very far away from where we are. He lives on land -- Mi'kma'ki, although I suppose you might know it by the name Nova Scotia. 

#### SIVA

You have a *husband* in the Province of *Canada?!* 

#### BAKER

I do. 

#### SIVA

_(spluttering incredulously)_ But you've never mentioned him! 

#### BAKER

Sometimes we protect the things closest to our heart by not talking about them. 

#### SIVA

...Don't you miss him?

##### [BAKER HEAVES A SIGH]

#### BAKER

More than anything. 

#### SIVA

And... doesn't he miss you? 

#### BAKER

Oh yes. 

#### SIVA

Then why are you apart? If *I* was lucky enough to be with the one I loved... 

#### BAKER

Because people are complicated. And we don't always say what we want.

##### [TRANSITIONAL MUSIC: AN UPWELLING OF STRINGS, A LONELY BIRDCALL]

##### [EXT. MI'KMA'KI. OUTSIDE GABE AND BAKER'S HOUSE. THE PAST.]

##### [GABE SINGS TO HIMSELF, BUT CUTS OFF: THERE'S A KNOCK AT THE DOOR.]

#### GABE

_(to himself)_ What in the world --?

_(calling)_ It's open! 

#### BAKER

Gabe. 

#### GABE

*Baker?!* 

#### BAKER

There wasn't time to send word -- 

#### GABE

_(loud)_ I -- I thought you were...

_(quieter)_ But you're fine.

What do you want? 

#### BAKER

I-I-I -- I didn't come back for me.

#### GABE

Of course not. Why *would* you?

##### [BAKER REVEALS NDILISWA]

#### BAKER

She needs help.

#### GABE

And who is "she"? 

#### BAKER

She is -- 

#### GABE

The child can speak for herself. 

#### BAKER

No. She can't. Or... won't. That's the problem.

#### GABE

Put her in my bed. You remember where that is.

##### [FOOTSTEPS AS BAKER TAKES NDILISWA TO THE OTHER ROOM, THEN RETURNS ALONE]

#### BAKER

She's out. Exhausted after that journey we had. 

#### GABE

She looks like she's been through a heap of *something.* 

#### BAKER

Hasn't said a word since I found her half-drowned off the coast of Jamaica. Barely eats. It's like she's living but she's not...

#### GABE

Alive.

##### [BEAT]

_(can't take it anymore)_ What are you doing here, Baker? I mean, there's a hundred spots between here and Jamaica you could have chosen to rest up. 

#### BAKER

...I couldn't... give her what she needed. And I thought maybe you...

I missed you.

#### GABE

I thought you were dead!

#### BAKER

I'm sorry. 

#### GABE

*Five years.* 

#### BAKER

I'm sorry. 

#### GABE

Five years and not a word! 

#### BAKER

I'm so --

#### GABE

If you say "sorry" one more time, I'll turn you out of the house right now! 

#### BAKER

I... Yes.

##### [GABE BREATHES DEEPLY]

#### GABE

You know I wasn't happy about you going, but I would have understood. I mean, I could see you needed to be... *somewhere* else. _(beat)_ Why didn't you *talk* to me? 

#### BAKER

Didn't know what to say. 

#### GABE

Well then. Guess there's not much to say now, is there?

You can sleep on the floor. I'll make up a bed.

#### BAKER

Gabe, please --

##### [LOW STRINGS SET IN]

#### GABE

We can talk about what to do with this girl of yours in the morning. In the meantime, you'd better have a good hard think.

#### BAKER

About what?

#### GABE

How long you intend to stay.

##### [STRINGS FADE INTO TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

##### [INT. MI'KMA'KI. GABE AND BAKER'S HOUSE. THE PAST.]

#### GABE

That girl! She'll be the death of me! Or more likely someone else. 

#### BAKER

She didn't mean to -- 

#### GABE

She can speak for *herself,* thank you. Now -- Alestes. What have you got to say? 

#### ALESTES

_(sulky, teenage)_ He was being *stupid.* 

#### GABE

There are plenty of stupid people in the world, Alestes, we don't go holding their heads underwater!

#### ALESTES

Why not? It's the quickest way.

#### GABE

_(snorts)_ To do what? 

#### ALESTES

To stop them from being stupid again. 

##### [BEAT]

#### GABE

_(trying not to laugh)_ You'll apologise and bring the boy's family a gift. Some of that salmon we smoked last week should do it. 

#### ALESTES

But *why?* 

#### GABE

Because... other people are all we have. We look after our neighbours, and -- they look after us. 

#### ALESTES

But I don't need looking after. I can take care of myself just fine. 

#### GABE

Of course you can, Alestes. Nobody doubts how strong you are, or how capable. But isn't it nice, sometimes, to have someone dote on you? To teach you how to smoke salmon, or tell you stories?

#### ALESTES

...I'd rather be *making* stories.

#### GABE

Oh yeah? You wanna be an adventurer like my sweet seafarer? 

##### [GABE GIVES BAKER AN OVER-THE-TOP PARENTAL KISS]

#### ALESTES

Urgh! Fine! I'll go apologise, will that make you stop?!

##### [SHE STOMPS AWAY, AND THE DOOR CLOSES]

#### BAKER

...Should we be worried, Gabe? Talking like that...

#### GABE

She'll be fine. She'll find the right place for herself. In time.

##### [THE ROAR OF A WAVE BUILDS, DROWNING OUT THEIR VOICES, THEN FADES:]

##### [INT. MI'KMA'KI. GABE AND BAKER'S HOUSE. THE PAST.]

#### BAKER

...ten -- no, fifteen foot high at least! We saw the wave coming off the starboard bow, and we were powerless to stop it -- _(chuckles)_ I tell you, you don't know the sea --

#### GABE & ALESTES

_(chorusing together)_ -- until she's showed you the back of her hand.

##### [THEY LAUGH] 

#### BAKER

Told this one before, have I? 

#### ALESTES

Only every time there's a storm. 

#### BAKER

Well, _(a little melancholy)_ that's the trouble with coming inland. You stop making new stories to tell. 

#### ALESTES

Do you think I'll ever get to make stories like yours? 

#### BAKER

I-If that's what you want.

#### GABE

I think we should all be making stories by going to bed and dreaming. Off you go, Alestes.

##### [ALESTES STARTS TO LEAVE]

#### GABE

And no reading into the small hours! 

#### ALESTES

'Course not, Gabe. Night, Baker. 

##### [THE OPEN-SHUT OF A DOOR]

#### BAKER

What's she reading now? 

#### GABE

*Tales of the Deep.* You know -- sea monsters, pirate ships... 

#### BAKER

Er, I promise I didn't give it to her -- 

#### GABE

No, no. She picked it up in Halifax all by herself.

##### [THE DISTANT HOWL OF WIND]

She's... old enough to do a lot of things by herself now. Not much younger than us when we met. 

#### BAKER

That's different. 

#### GABE

How? 

#### BAKER

She's been through a lot. She -- 

#### GABE

She'll never put what she's been through behind her if she doesn't go out and start seeing the world herself. 

#### BAKER

What are you saying? 

#### GABE

You know as well as I do that she won't stay here hunting squid and squirrels her whole life. 

#### BAKER

She can't go out there on her own. 

#### GABE

I know.

...That's why you're going with her. 

#### BAKER

Gabe, no.

#### GABE

Don't look at me like that. It's been -- more than I can say, having you both here with me. But I've seen the way your eyes sparkle when you're telling your old stories. I know she's not the only one that wants the chance to make more.

Am I wrong?

#### BAKER

...I can't abandon you again.

#### GABE

So this time it won't be an abandonment. You're going to take our girl into the world and show her what there is to be seen. And then -- you're going to sit down and write to me about it.

#### BAKER

Write? 

#### GABE

Why do you think I spent so much time teaching you your letters? Not for my health, I can tell you that. 

#### BAKER

You said I was improving!

#### GABE

And you're going to improve more by writing to me! Once a month at least, and I want to know everything -- where you go, what you eat, how many boys Alestes beats up along the way...

##### [THEY BOTH SNICKER SOFTLY]

#### BAKER

You had this all planned out. 

#### GABE

Baby, the moment you stepped back in my home, I knew it wouldn't be forever. And -- that's alright. You need to be out there, same as I need to be here with my school and my people. Just -- don't forget this time. 

#### BAKER

Forget what? 

#### GABE

That there are people here who love you. This is your home. 

#### BAKER

_(tearing up)_ Gabe... 

#### GABE

Shush now. We've still got tonight at least... 

##### [MELANCHOLY, TRANSITIONAL MUSIC, DROWNED OUT BY THE TOSSING OF WAVES]

##### [INT. THE GALLEY OF THE *NETA.* AFTERNOON.]

#### SIVA

...How long since you've seen him?

#### BAKER

Going on a few years now.

#### SIVA

A few *years?* 

#### BAKER

I keep my promise. One letter a month, sometimes more.

#### SIVA

And... that's enough?

#### BAKER

People are complicated, Siva. We need things that... don't always make sense. 

#### SIVA

I see. Or -- rather, I don't see and I'm not sure I ever will, but -- yes, I see. 

#### BAKER

Come here, lad. 

##### [BAKER PULLS SIVA INTO A BIG HUG.]

##### [SIVA LAUGHS, JOYOUS]

#### SIVA

_(strained from the hug)_ Thank you, Baker! 

#### BAKER

Now -- pass me that rice. Coming up on dinner time. 

##### [EXT. THE ISLAND. APPROACHING DUSK.]

##### [ALESTES AND INEZ DIGGING AS BEFORE, SLOWER NOW]

#### INEZ

Touch of pink on the horizon. 

#### ALESTES

Talking about the weather now, are we? Fascinating. 

#### INEZ

I'm saying it'll be dark within the hour. We should get back to the ship. 

#### ALESTES

Not stopping now.

##### [INEZ THROWS DOWN THEIR SHOVEL]

#### INEZ

Give *up,* Alestes. We've dug holes all over this godforsaken rock and we've found exactly nothing. There isn't any treasure. There isn't any *gold.* He was toying with you.

#### ALESTES

No. There has to be. 

#### INEZ

*Why* does there have to be?!

_(contemptuous)_ Because he promised you? 

#### ALESTES

Because I -- because I sold something important to him. The second we struck gold I was going to go back and exchange them.

#### INEZ

What did you give him?

#### ALESTES

None of your --

_(lying)_ ...Noor's bracelets.

#### INEZ

How. Desperate. Are you? 

#### ALESTES

What? 

#### INEZ

_(slowly)_ Anyone with half a brain could see that this plan had more holes in it than one of your pathetic fishing nets, yet you're so *desperate* to believe you can get lucky on some half-cocked fairy tale about sea turtles that you gamble away your crewmate's possessions?

##### [SHE BREATHES OUT, FURIOUS]

I've had enough. I'm going to find Noor and Siva and we're going to row back to the ship.

#### ALESTES

Fine, go. I'm not stopping until --

##### [CLUNK! METAL HITTING SOMETHING BIG AND HEAVY AND WOODEN]

#### INEZ

What was that? 

##### [THEME MUSIC SETS IN]

#### ALESTES

I think -- I think --

#### INEZ

Was that --? 

#### ALESTES

Don't just stand there! Pick up your shovel and dig! 

##### [THEY DIG]

#### ALESTES

Yes! Yes, get it out -- carefully... 

#### INEZ

You be careful. 

#### ALESTES

That's it --

##### [THEY HEAVE SOMETHING UP]

Oh my God. 

#### INEZ

Oh my God. 

#### ALESTES

It's real! 

#### INEZ

I can't believe it. 

#### ALESTES

I knew it was real! I knew that old goat would *never* lie to me! 

##### [ALESTES LIFTS THE CREAKY LID]

##### [SILENCE]

#### INEZ

What?

##### [MORE SILENCE]

What is it? 

#### ALESTES

_(faint)_ No. 

#### INEZ

What's in there? Let me see.

#### ALESTES

I don't -- it's not -- 

##### [INEZ LIFTS OUT A PIECE OF PAPER]

#### INEZ

It's just... a note. Nothing else.

_(reading)_ "Better luck next time, kid. Love, Gammon." _(beat)_ "Kiss." 

#### ALESTES

I... he...

#### INEZ

It was a trick. 

#### ALESTES

He lied. 

#### INEZ

Just a dirty, rotten *trick!* 

#### ALESTES

He said -- he said -- 

#### INEZ

He said there was treasure! 

#### ALESTES

I believed him! I *believed* him. 

##### [BEAT]

What are you looking at?! 

#### INEZ

Nothing. 

#### ALESTES

Go on then, fill your boots. Say "I told you so." Run off and spread the word that Alestes of the *Netaonasom* is the worst captain to sail the seven seas: a dupe, a fool, a naive idiot with gold in her eyes --

#### INEZ

...I don't reckon there's anything I could say that you're not saying to yourself.

##### [LOW MUSIC]

#### ALESTES

We should get back. Baker wanted us to stop in at port on the way, check for letters.

#### INEZ

Are you... alright?

##### [ALESTES LAUGHS, COLD AND MIRTHLESS]

#### ALESTES

Nothing the sight of Gammon's blood on my sword won't fix.

##### [TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

##### [INT. THE GALLEY OF THE *NETA.* EVENING.]

##### [TWO PAIRS OF FOOTSTEPS HEAD CLOSER]

#### BAKER

Just in time! Food's on the table.

##### [CLINKING NOISES OF CUTLERY]

Any luck? 

##### [ALESTES THUNKS THE TWO (DEAD) TURTLES ON THE TABLE]

#### ALESTES

These are for the pot.

#### SIVA

Are those the turtles? 

#### INEZ

I want those shells once you're done with them. 

#### BAKER

...Right. Of course.

#### INEZ

_(singsong)_ We came back via port as you asked. 

#### BAKER

Anything for me? 

#### SIVA

Oh, you mean --! You mean any... interesting... messages... 

#### NOOR

Nothing for you, Baker. But Siva -- _(playful)_ something for you. 

#### SIVA

What? Who could possibly -- what? Why are you smiling? 

#### NOOR

Why don't you take a look? 

##### [PAPER RUSTLES]

#### SIVA

It's from... Mr Blair. He says... he says... my goodness! 

#### BAKER

Don't leave us in suspense, lad.

#### SIVA

He says he might have found a position for me at -- the Queen's Museum!

##### [SCATTERED CONGRATULATORY NOISES FROM THE CREW]

#### INEZ

Ahaha, you did well!

#### BAKER

Siva, that's wonderful!

#### NOOR

Isn't it!

I hope you don't mind, the note wasn't sealed and Inez saw Mr Blair's signature so we snuck a peek and -- Mashallah! _(audibly grinning)_ I'm so delighted for you!

#### INEZ

The Queen's Museum! That's not to be sniffed at. 

#### SIVA

It's... It's a dream come true...

#### INEZ

Then what's with the expression? 

#### NOOR

It's the opportunity of a lifetime, Siva!

#### SIVA

Yes, I -- suppose it might be.

_(clears his throat)_ Alest -- Captain. Could we make port at Kalitivu? Mr Blair says I can leave word of my response for him there.

#### ALESTES

Headed that way anyway. Congratulations.

##### [FOOTSTEPS. A DOOR OPENS AND SHUTS]

#### BAKER

Are you sure nothing's wrong? 

#### ALESTES

Not now, Baker. 

#### BAKER

I take it today wasn't everything you hoped for?

#### ALESTES

Hm. We need to alter course for Kalitivu. 

#### BAKER

Of course. Good of you to do that for Siva. 

#### ALESTES

Siva's news wasn't the only message waiting for us at port. 

#### BAKER

Anh...?

#### ALESTES

Yes. My favour has come due.

##### [SHOW THEME -- OUTRO]

#### ANNOUNCER

*Trice Forgotten* is a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill and licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Sharealike 4.0 International License. The series is created by Nemo Martin and directed by Rafaella Marcus. Today's episode was written by Rafaella Marcus and Nemo Martin and edited by Nico Vettese, Maddy Searle, Tessa Vroom, Katharine Seaton and Catherine Rinella.

*Trice Forgotten* features: Rebecca Brough, Vic Zander, Shahan Hamza, Gigi Zahir, Ashley Goh, Richard Bobb-Semple. *Trice Forgotten* is produced by Lowri Ann Davies, Ian Geers and production manager Natasha Johnston with executive producers Alexander J Newall and April Sumner.

To subscribe, view associated materials, or join our Patreon, visit rustyquill.com. Rate and review us online, tweet us @therustyquill, visit us on Facebook or email us at mail@rustyquill.com. Thanks for listening.