---
layout:          post
title:           "SEAS 10 - Breach"
date:            2022-12-06 11:00:00 -0400
episode_type:      episode
tags:            []
voiced:          [Alestes, Anh, Mary, Siva, Inez, Noor, Baker, Guard, Gammon, Elizabeth]
categories:			"tf"
podcasts: ["tf"]
title_prefix:	"SEAS"
prev_categories: ["tf"]
prev_prefixes: ["SEAS"]
prev_episode:	['009']
prev_episode_num:		['009']
prev_episode_title:		["Raised Aloft"]
episode_title:   'Breach'
episode_number:  '010'
summary:         "Herring & Marnock Esq's Dictionary of Nautical and Pyratical Terms, 1849: breach: a 'breach' or 'shipbreach' is another term for a shipwreck; the taking on of water, often leaving the vessel in mortal danger<br/><br/>Series finale. In which allegiances are decided, truths come to light, and a new course is plotted."
content_flags:   ["Colonialism", "Racism", "Weapons and explosives", "Graphic violence", "Murder", "Character death", "SFX: High pitched metallic clanking and scraping, crowds and mobs, loud water and waves, flies, crying and sobbing; drinking, fire, building collapse, guns and gunfire, explosions"]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/trice-forgotten/trice-forgotten-10-breach
formats:
official:        true
---

##### [SHOW THEME -- INTRO] 

##### [EXT. THE GALLOPING ENGLISHMAN -- DECK -- LATE AFTERNOON -- PAST]

##### [ALESTES' MEMORIES: THE CREW OF THE GALLOPING ENGLISHMAN CHEER AS ANH AND ALESTES FIGHT]

##### [THEIR SWORDS CLASH. ANH PANTS]

#### ALESTES

What's wrong, Annie? Feeling tired already? 

#### ANH

Just thought you could use the break, what with your history of loss. 

#### ALESTES

Is that what you'd call today's quarry? A loss? 

#### ANH

One ransacked ship and she thinks she's the queen of the world!

##### [DISTANT OOHING FROM CROWD]

#### ALESTES

Guns? 

#### ANH

Bare fists. 

#### ALESTES

You're on. 

##### [FISTICUFF NOISES, THEY GRUNT AS FLESH CONNECTS TO FLESH]

#### ANH

Can you move any slower, my sweet? 

#### ALESTES

I'll pick up the pace once you learn how to throw a real punch.

##### [MORE OOHING]

Lost your sea legs? 

#### ANH

Screw you! 

##### [METALLIC SCRAPING SOUNDS: ANH DRAWS A WEAPON]

#### ALESTES

*Knife?* What happened to just fists?!

#### ANH

Are you scared? 

#### ALESTES

Of what? You descaling a fish?

##### [A FEW MORE SWIPES, BEFORE ANH'S BREATHING BECOMES LABORED: ALESTES HAS HER HAND AROUND ANH'S NECK]

On your knees.

##### [ANH CONTINUES TO STRUGGLE]

I said: get down on your knees. Drop the knife. 

Anh. Relent.

_(quieter)_ *Anh.*

##### [ANH LAUGHS, WEAKLY, ON THE BRINK OF UNCONSCIOUSNESS.]

#### ANH

Make. Me.

##### [BEAT]

##### [ALESTES LETS GO, ANH COUGHS PAINFULLY] 

#### ANH

You should have killed me! 

#### ALESTES

Sometimes I wonder if you remember that we're on the same crew, Anh. 

#### ANH

Awww! You're breaking my heart. Is that what Daddy tells you at night? "Sweet dreams, little 'Lestes, and remember to be polite to the crew in the morning?"

#### ALESTES

Baker is not my father. 

#### ANH

"Baker"? Huh. Funny. I bet you wish we were all a happy little family, sailing along, singing songs, hand-in-hand --

#### ALESTES

What exactly do *you* have, Anh? Playing second-fiddle for a man that barely remembers your name. 

#### ANH

That's more like it! __There's__ the Alestes with power. 

#### ALESTES

"Power" is what you want, Anh. Leave me out of it. 

#### ANH

Baker, Gammon, the both of them, can't you see they're... contorting you, keeping you down? 

#### ALESTES

And you'll treat me better? 

#### ANH

You and me, Alestes. We're the ones that should be in charge. 

#### ALESTES

Power comes with responsibilities. Find someone else to entertain your mutiny. 

#### ANH

How can you be so --

#### ALESTES

Stay here and moan if you want. I'm bored of this. 

#### ANH

Alestes. Alestes! 

##### [EXT. NETAOANSOM -- DECK -- DAY]

##### [A QUIET PORT. ALESTES IS HANDLING THE RIGGING]

##### [SUDDENLY, THE SOUND OF ANH'S FLUTE]

##### [ALESTES STOPS]

#### ALESTES

_(sighs)_ Get off my ship, Anh. 

##### [ANH CLIMBS DOWN THE RIGGING FROM THE BIRD'S NEST, LANDING ON THE DECK]

##### [ALESTES REMOVES HER COAT] 

#### ANH

Oh my, taking our clothes off already, darling? Buy a lady a drink first!

#### ALESTES

I like this coat, and I don't feel like scrubbing your blood from it. 

#### ANH

Straight to the fight without any foreplay -- just like the old days.

##### [ALESTES UNSHEATHES HER SWORD]

#### ANH

_(smiling)_ I like it. 

##### [INT. GAMMON'S HIDEAWAY -- DAY -- PRESENT]

##### [SIVA IS CRYING. MARY ENTERS AND SETS A TEA TRAY ON THE TABLE] 

#### MARY

_(softly)_ Let's get some tea in you. 

##### [SHE POURS THE TEA]

#### SIVA

Was he telling the truth? 

#### MARY

About which part? 

#### SIVA

That the raid was only successful because of my map. 

#### MARY

They would have found the place eventually. 

#### SIVA

..."Eventually." 

#### MARY

Though -- yes, I don't believe anyone involved could have imagined a document that allowed such one-sided tactical warfare. The poor devils were shot to pieces, and remained none the wiser until the very last second.

##### [SIVA SOBS]

#### MARY (CONT'D)

Oh -- _(uncomfortable)_ there, there now... Don't cry, Mary's here now.

##### [SIVA CONTINUES SNIFFLING]

Why don't you tell me what's making you so upset? 

#### SIVA

I killed her. 

#### MARY

Killed... who? 

#### SIVA

My Nani. My grandmother. She told me to be careful, to trust no-one, and then she -- she was hiding this behind my back!

If I had known, if she had told me what she was doing -- who she was involved with, I wouldn't have -- I could have *warned* her -- but she didn't, and so I couldn't, and...

And now she's dead.

#### MARY

Johana Keijl was your grandmother. 

#### SIVA

She didn't... she hated that name. It wasn't hers. It was what she was sold as. She was just Nani, she preferred that. 

#### MARY

I see... And this Nani really is dead, this isn't some subterfuge?

##### [SIVA MAKES A PAINED NOISE]

#### MARY (CONT'D)

Yes, yes... This one is important, Siva. I need you to really think about what I'm asking. Your grandmother, did she ever say *why* she might be plotting against the Governor? 

#### SIVA

She wanted me to remember this island as it could be, not as it is. 

#### MARY

_(a humourless laugh)_ All this trouble because of an *actual* slave uprising. Graham will not be pleased. 

#### SIVA

An "actual" uprising? 

#### MARY

My brother is a pompous fool. He was worse when he was younger. A prig in every sense of the word. A school bully so polite that you thanked him for choosing you to bash against the wall. A man despised and desired by all, in equal measure. A gentleman in good graces. A Governorship across the sea -- a whole island of people to order around.

##### [HER VOICE RISES; THIS IS FAMILIAR TERRITORY FOR HER]

"This is what I was born for, Mary," he would say. The whole. Journey. Over. "This is what I was born for." A small island, for sure, but plenty of potential. Cinnamon, tea, plantations of every kind. It could not have been more simple an opportunity!

And yet, even then. Even with *one* job to do. Even *then,* the crown got tired of him. 

#### SIVA

He really isn't the Governor anymore? 

#### MARY

_(snapping)_ Kalitivu has been officially deemed too insignificant to require a Governor for some years now. 

#### SIVA

But -- I've lived here my whole life. How did we not... 

#### MARY

No use telling the *locals* and getting them uppity.

I __told__ him that now would be the perfect opportunity to use whatever we had left. Invest it in a venture, secure our futures. But he couldn't do one thing right with his life.

_(catching her breath)_ In a few weeks, Captain Gammon will be caught, killed, and the occupied island of Kalitivu will be remanded back to the British soldiers because of the *excellent* work of former-Governor Graham Peters. "What better way to prove my worth than to catch a terrifying pirate leading slave rebellions, Mary!" 

#### SIVA

But -- but *he's* Captain Gammon. 

#### MARY

Yes? It's far easier to mop up troubles of your own creation. Why actually help when one can create a problem and then make it go away? 

#### SIVA

So he's doing all this because --

#### MARY

A promotion to Governor of Ceylon, perhaps. But ultimately, he wants to go back to his damp little boys' club with his honour redeemed. 

##### [SIVA STARTS BREATHING FASTER. ANGRY.]

#### SIVA

That's --

#### MARY

A monumental waste of time and money? And it almost came crumbling down around his feet because your *silly* little grandmother tried using a brain she wasn't born to use.

##### [SHE LAUGHS. SIVA EXHALES SHAKILY -- SHOCK, FURY...]

#### MARY (CONT'D)

Oh. Apologies. It is not in my nature to put on a maternal front. I'll be honest, Siva, I don't particularly enjoy being my brother's little go-between, but you rats really do need to stop being so... scheming. It makes it so hard for one to get anything done around here.

#### SIVA

_(defiant)_ I-I'll tell them. 

#### MARY

Who? The soldiers out there, eating food better than they get served in England? Or the rest of the defeated little revolutionaries crawling around the island? Or, better yet, the pirate captain you spurned outside? 

#### SIVA

My friends, they'll -- they'll come for me. 

#### MARY

Then they'd better get here quickly. The second you're not useful, Siva, it won't just be your fingers Anh will remove. 

##### [EXT. GAMMON'S HIDEAWAY -- DAY]

##### [INEZ, BAKER AND NOOR ARE MAKING THEIR CAREFUL WAY THROUGH THE CORRIDORS] 

#### INEZ

Once we've found Siva, we'll need some way to get off the island. 

#### NOOR

Alestes would not have really left, would she? 

#### INEZ

Let's not bet on the "Captain" having found a beating human heart in the last hour. 

#### NOOR

She has her moments, but she comes around in the end.

#### INEZ

Oh, really?

If she's still there, ask her what she pawned to afford those "magic" turtles. 

#### NOOR

What are you... talking about? 

#### INEZ

She's always complaining that we're not making enough, but somehow she can afford to buy the secret to a treasure hoard? She's desperate, and she's heartless. 

##### [BEAT]

#### NOOR

She sold my bracelets? 

#### INEZ

Why don't you ask him? 

#### NOOR

...Baker? 

#### BAKER

...I... wouldn't put it past her. 

#### NOOR

Oh. I... I see.

##### [A GUARD ROUNDS THE CORNER] 

#### GUARD

Hey! You there, stop --

##### [INEZ HAS STABBED HIM] 

##### [HE WHIMPERS, THEN FALLS]

#### INEZ

Shh, shh, shh... 

##### [SILENCE]

#### NOOR

Inez, you --

#### BAKER 

Killed him. 

#### INEZ

Because you two are blabbering too loudly.

What, you want us to tie him up? Ask him nicely not to shout for help? 

#### BAKER

But -- to take another person's life... Inez... 

#### INEZ

What is it with you two? With *all* of you? We are on a rescue mission. It's us, or it's them. Kill or be killed. That's the world we live in. 

#### BAKER

"Other people are all we have. We look after our neighbours, and they look after us." 

#### INEZ

_(laughs)_ Would you rather he'd taken your life?

##### [PAUSE]

No, I didn't think so. Now let's *go,* before his friends find him. 

##### [EXT. NETAOANSOM -- DECK]

##### [ALESTES AND ANH FIGHT, METAL CLASHING] 

#### ANH

I thought you'd try to run without saying goodbye, but I didn't bet on you being alone. What's the matter, 'Lesty, you abandon your new crew already?

##### [ALESTES STAYS SILENT. ANOTHER CLASH OF METAL]

Oh no, did they abandon you? That *is* tragic! 

#### ALESTES

_(gritted teeth)_ Do you have to speak -- so -- much, or can we kill each other in silence?

##### [A PAUSE IN THE DUEL]

#### ANH

You know what's been bugging me: in all our years together, I would *never* have described you as a quitter. Plenty of things I hated about you, but to quit? Not you. Not my Alestes. Not until the day you ran. 

#### ALESTES

So that's a no on the fighting in silence, then. 

##### [WITH A SHOUT, ANH LAUNCHES BACK INTO IT]

#### ANH

We work well together, 'Lestes. Equals in a sea of filth. And if you wanted out from under the pig's thumb, you know I would have killed him for you. In a *moment!*

##### [THEY STOP TO CATCH THEIR BREATH] 

#### ANH

We could have taken everything, that night. You could have had a pretty life for yourself. You don't want power? No responsibility? Fine, all fine! I'd have even taken in your old man, if it meant keeping you by my side.

But you left. You just -- left. Why did you do that? 

#### ALESTES

I have my reasons, Anh. 

#### ANH

Tell me. 

#### ALESTES

You won't like my answer. 

#### ANH

I'd rather not like you than be confused by you, Alestes. 

##### [PAUSE]

#### ALESTES

I was trying to protect you. 

#### ANH

Protect me? From what? You? 

#### ALESTES

From him. 

#### ANH

*Gammon?* What makes you think I need protecting from him?

I'm not a fool, Alestes. You've always been plotting something, I know it. You can tell me. You can trust me. I am the only person in the *world* who sees who you really are. Who you could be. 

##### [SILENCE, THE CRY OF SEAGULLS]

#### ALESTES

He won't make you his heir. Even now. Even this close to getting what he wants, to going back to England, honour restored. He'd rather blow the whole fleet up than hand it over to you. You're going to shoulder the blame, Annie. He's going to sell you out like you're nothing. A human sacrifice.

#### ANH

_(faltering)_ You, you say that like it isn't part of my plan --

#### ALESTES

If you know his plans, why are you still here, doing his dirty work? 

#### ANH

Tell me where I'll get a better view of his demise than by his right-hand side.

#### ALESTES

_(quiet)_ You're deluding yourself, Anh. You always have been. How many chances have you had to kill the man? But here you still are. Still vying for his affections, like it's some competition between us.

You'll go down for him one last time, and you'll have no-one to blame but yourself.

##### [ANH LETS OUT A CRY OF FRUSTRATION, AND LAUNCHES A NEW BOUT OF ATTACKS] 

##### [INT. GAMMON'S HIDEAWAY -- CORRIDOR -- DAY]

##### [INEZ, BAKER AND NOOR STILL CREEPING THROUGH THE CORRIDORS] 

#### TRIO, IN TURN

Siva? Siiivvaa? 

#### SIVA

_(whisper-shout)_ In here! 

#### BAKER

There, that door --

#### NOOR

*Siva!*

##### [NOOR BACKS UP, THEN TRIES TO BREAK DOWN THE DOOR] 

#### INEZ

Shh! Do you want the whole island to hear? Move out of the way.

##### [WITH A JANGLING OF METAL, INEZ BEGINS PICKING THE LOCK] 

#### BAKER

Explosives, assassinations and now lockpicking? Who are you? 

#### INEZ

Quiet, I need to hear.

##### [THE LOCK UNLATCHES] 

#### SIVA

You came for me!

#### NOOR

Of course we came. 

#### BAKER

Are you injured? Did they hurt you? 

#### SIVA

I didn't know if -- I couldn't remember where the exit was and I was just running around the garden and --

#### INEZ 

_(surprised)_ You escaped? 

#### SIVA

They caught me and -- Alestes was there and she said all these horrible things and then Mary said Anh was going to kill me!

##### [SIVA NEARLY STUMBLES] 

#### BAKER

Whoa, steady. Lost your land legs already? 

#### INEZ

We don't have time for your fainting fits, Siva. 

#### NOOR

Here -- if you can't stand, let me carry you. 

#### INEZ

_(frustrated)_ Let him walk. 

#### NOOR

You take the bag, Siva, and then get on my back --

##### [SIVA HEFTS THE BAG, NOOR LIFTS HIM UP] 

#### SIVA

Thank you. 

#### BAKER

You're safe, Siva. 

#### NOOR

We've got you. 

#### SIVA

I killed her, Noor. It was me. I killed my Nani. 

#### NOOR

No, you didn't. 

#### BAKER

Whatever they told you, lad, they were lying. 

#### SIVA

I did! If it wasn't for me --

#### INEZ

Now we've found him, let's burn this place down and run. 

#### BAKER

Burn it --

What, what is that? 

#### INEZ

Alestes' magic turtles. Filled with gunpowder and a fuse. One here, the other by the storage room out back. I bet you that's where they've packed their ammo. Boom, the whole place will go up in flames. 

#### BAKER

*No,* Inez! Absolutely not! 

#### INEZ

Keep it down. Do you want to draw their attention? 

#### BAKER

We are not blowing the place up. There are people in this building who work here! People like Siva's grandmother, who will get caught up in whatever *revenge fantasy* you're acting out. 

#### INEZ

How else do you expect them to learn their lesson? To *make* them --

#### NOOR

Siva -- stop wriggling, or I'll drop you!

#### GUARDS

_(distant)_ Over there! 

#### INEZ

Come on, let's go --

#### BAKER

Not until you give me that bomb, Inez! 

#### INEZ

'kaloka--! [Translation: you piss me off!] Baker, you want this to end? To stop the bad people from coming after Siva? This is how we do that!

##### [SIVA JUMPS OFF NOOR'S BACK] 

#### SIVA

Inez? 

#### INEZ

Yes?

##### [SIVA SHOVES INEZ] 

#### INEZ

Ow! What the --

##### [SIVA YANKS THE BOMB OFF OF INEZ -- THEN RUNS] 

#### INEZ

Hey! Bring that back! Where are you going, Siva! 

#### BAKER

Run, lad! Get that bomb back to the ship! 

#### GUARDS

You there! Stop!

#### INEZ

Noor, the bag -- get me a weapon --

#### NOOR

Siva has it.

##### [THE GUARDS FILE IN, SURROUND THEM] 

#### GUARDS

Hands in the air!

#### INEZ

Shit. 

##### [EXT. NETAOANSOM -- DECK]

##### [ALESTES AND ANH ARE BOTH EXHAUSTED FROM THIS FIGHT. ALESTES JUDO-THROWS ANH] 

##### [THEY TAKE A MOMENT TO PANT]

#### ANH

Oh, Alestes, straddling me in broad daylight? Someone might see. 

##### [SILENCE]

#### ALESTES

He told me to kill you. 

#### ANH

What? 

#### ALESTES

He told me to kill you. But I didn't want to do that, and so here we are. 

##### [ANH DIGESTS THIS]

#### ANH

You should have tried. 

#### ALESTES

I'm not going to kill you, Anh. Not then, not now, not ever. 

#### ANH

If you don't, I'll chase you down for as long as I live, and make your life hell. 

#### ALESTES

Do you not have anything better to do with your time? 

#### ANH

Nothing delights me as much as that look on your face, when you're seconds away from losing control. 

#### ALESTES

_(gritted teeth)_ Anh --

#### ANH

Yeah. There it is.

##### [A DISTANT EXPLOSION -- AND THEN THE STARTLED FLIGHT OF BIRDS. BOTH STOP.] 

#### ALESTES

That came from --

#### ANH

The house. 

#### ALESTES

...Was that your plan?! Distract me down here while your cronies blew him up --

#### ANH

And miss the chance to kill him myself?

##### [ANH USES THE DISTRACTION TO WRESTLE HER WAY ON TOP. SHE PULLS OUT HER KNIFE]

#### ANH

I prefer when you're on top, but... I suppose I could get used to watching you lie there, powerless... 

#### ALESTES

I have to go. 

#### ANH

Why, so you can protect the people that abandoned you? 

#### ALESTES

Anh. 

#### ANH

...You'll hurt a girl's feelings, thinking about other people at a time like this. 

#### ALESTES

_(softly)_ I have to go. 

##### [EXT. GAMMON'S HIDEAWAY -- FORECOURT -- EARLY EVENING]

##### [PART OF THE HOUSE BEHIND THEM IS BURNING.] 

#### MARY

Bloody ingrates -- the lot of them --

#### GAMMON

Don't gripe, Mary. It's not lady-like. 

#### MARY

Our estate is burning down, Graham, the least you could do is --

#### GAMMON

Oh don't be so dramatic, they barely damaged the West Wing. 

#### MARY

The wing we *reside* in --

#### GAMMON

I am dealing with the issue, Mary!

#### MARY

"Dealing with it"? You have the culprits, have a guard kill them! 

#### GAMMON

You think whoever else is out there will take kindly to us killing our only hostages? 

#### INEZ

Oh, you two just love the sound of your own voices, don't you.

##### [GAMMON KNOCKS INEZ OUT. SHE FALLS UNCONSCIOUS] 

#### NOOR & BAKER

Inez! 

#### GAMMON

Why does nobody understand that I'm not just playing around, here? Guard, truss that one before they wake up. You two, get on your knees or I'll knock you both down next. 

#### BAKER

_(spitting)_ Go ahead. 

#### GAMMON

Don't test me, Baker, or I'll shoot that one in the headscarf and you can watch their blood water my damned roses!

#### NOOR

...Let us do as he says, Baker. 

##### [SILENCE AS THEY PRESUMABLY KNEEL]

#### GAMMON

Thank you. The rest of you guards, fan out, find whoever else is lurking in what's left of my walls.

##### [THE GUARDS LEAVE] 

#### GAMMON

You know, Baker, you'll probably find this strange, but I've missed this! You and I, vying for Alestes' allegiance. I concede, it was a shame she chose you... But God knows the young must make their own mistakes to learn from them. 

#### MARY

Wise words from the likes of *you.* 

#### GAMMON

I won't tell you to be quiet again, Mary!

#### MARY

Good. Don't. 

##### [GAMMON MAKES A BITTEN-OFF FRUSTRATED NOISE, THEN CONTINUES:]

#### GAMMON

And after the year she's had, I'm sure Alestes has had more than enough time to reconsider her... unfortunate decision. 

#### BAKER

You think she wants to swan around in London with you? 

#### GAMMON

God, no! No, no, no. She'll stay out here, inherit *my* fleet, keep *my* interests alive, just in case I ever need them again.

Go ahead, have at it while we wait. 

#### BAKER

Have at what? 

#### GAMMON

I expect some sort of -- _(puts on Glaswegian accent)_ "Aye, ya don't own her!" -- type speech! 

#### BAKER

Alestes speaks for herself. 

#### GAMMON

Ohhh, oh. Well? Don't stop there.

##### [SILENCE]

Oh, go on, Baker. I bet you've always wanted to tell me to go frig myself with a sharp instrument! Now's your chance!

##### [MORE SILENCE, EXCEPT THE BACKGROUND TENSION OF HIGH STRINGS]

No? Really? Gosh, how dull. I could always... force you, of course.

##### [...]

Not even a flicker of fear. Well, you can't say I didn't have a good old stab at asking for your final words. I really, really did not enjoy your presence aboard my ship, Baker, and I'm so glad I will kill you myself. 

#### NOOR

Baker--!

#### BAKER

Shhhhh. It's fine. 

#### GAMMON

Now, how do you want this? Gun to the back of the head?

##### [GAMMON COCKS THE GUN] 

#### GAMMON (CONT'D)

We could build some stocks and get a noose... 

#### MARY

Just shoot him and get it over with, Graham. 

#### ALESTES

_(distant, calling over, breathless)_ STOP!

#### GAMMON

Ah. Earlier than expected. That Anh really is not good at her job. 

#### ALESTES

_(out of breath)_ Let them go, Gammon. 

#### GAMMON

Oh, so soft, now, Alestes. And for what? A couple of nobodies and a pathetic old man?

...What, no defending their honour? 

#### ALESTES

They don't matter to you. I do. Nothing I say changes that. 

#### GAMMON

Guilty as charged. 

#### ALESTES

So let's trade. They go free, I re-join your crew. 

#### GAMMON

You'd really do that, for them? 

#### ALESTES

I don't have all day.

#### GAMMON

And what's to stop you from running away again, hm? Breaking contract to go "straight." 

#### ALESTES

_(safe in despair)_ You own half the ports this side of the world, Gammon. Where would I run? Who would have me?

#### GAMMON

Well, I can't say that I'm complaining -- I certainly get the better end of this deal.

Run along, Baker. Shame I can't kill you, but... I'm sure watching her choose me is punishment enough. 

#### BAKER

Alestes --

#### GAMMON

Oh no no no no no. Didn't you just tell me that she can speak for herself? She's made a trade. Now remove your ship-stained friends from my lawn, and piss off. 

#### ALESTES

Get them to safety, Baker. 

#### BAKER

*Alestes* --

#### ALESTES

Go on. I'll be fine. 

##### [BEAT]

#### BAKER

_(sighs)_ Noor, do you think you can... 

#### NOOR

Yeah. I'll carry Inez.

##### [NOOR PICKS UP INEZ] 

##### [MOURNFUL MUSIC AS THEY WORK IN SILENCE, THEN SUDDENLY--]

#### SIVA

_(from a distance)_ AaaaaaaaaAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!

##### [SIVA BREAKS THROUGH THE TREE LINE]

#### NOOR

*Siva?!* 

#### SIVA

EVERYONE LAY YOUR WEAPONS DOWN!

#### GAMMON

Or what? 

#### SIVA

Or, or I'll throw *this!*

#### GAMMON

...A turtle shell? 

#### NOOR

The other bomb--!

#### ALESTES

You gave him bombs?! 

#### GAMMON

...Let's just calm down, hey, lad?

#### SIVA

Not until you free my friends! 

#### GAMMON

They are free to go. 

#### SIVA

I don't believe you! I don't believe anything you say! 

#### GAMMON

So what? You'll blow us up with them along for the ride? 

#### SIVA

I'll blow up the store room you've filled with ammo. No more estate. 

#### MARY

Come now, child --

#### SIVA

YOU BE QUIET, "MARY," if that's even your real name! 

#### ALESTES

Let's start by taking a deep breath... 

#### SIVA

Ooh, acting the Captain now, are we?! Where was that when you were slagging off my Nani? 

#### ALESTES

Siva, it was a ploy to get you out of there! 

#### SIVA

That's what you'd like me to believe, isn't it!

##### [CLICK. A FLINTLOCK PISTOL COCKS] 

#### GAMMON

Do not shoot, Mary! I want him alive. 

#### MARY

I don't give a damn what you want, Graham, I won't let him destroy what's left of this house! 

#### GAMMON

I will not allow you to ruin my plans with your disobedience any further! 

#### MARY

And what about *my* plans, Graham? 

#### GAMMON

My plans, your plans, what is the use in this pedantic --

#### SIVA 

AAAHHHHHH! BE QUIET!!!!!!

#### ALESTES

Siva, let's talk about this on the ship --

#### SIVA

Apologise for what you said about her! 

#### ALESTES

Fine! Yes! I'm sorry, Nani.

Now let's put the shell down and --

##### [SIVA THROWS THE BOMB -- ALL CRY AS IT COMES TOWARDS THEM -- BUT IT LANDS WITH AN UNDRAMATIC SPLAT IN THE MUD]

##### [EVERYONE GASPS FOR BREATH]

#### BAKER

Oh, thank God...

#### GAMMON

Thank God for a bad throwing arm! 

#### ALESTES

What the HELL are you doing, throwing it over here?! We're on YOUR SIDE! 

#### SIVA

Don't SHOUT at me! 

#### ALESTES

I'm not shouting at you --

#### SIVA

You are -- you always are -- and it's *not* nice!

#### BAKER

Hey, now, let's --

#### ALESTES

*Nice?!* I'm here, aren't I? Saving your useless ass yet again --

#### SIVA

I didn't ask you to come!

#### ALESTES

And yet here I am anyway! 

#### SIVA

I, I wish you would just -- just stop being so high and mighty!

#### NOOR

Siva, Captain -- please!

#### SIVA

All of you, always telling me what to do -- you, and Inez, and Mary, and Nani, all of you, thinking I'm just some *stupid* kid who doesn't know anything --

#### ALESTES

We wouldn't be in this mess if you knew absolutely anything about how the world works, Siva. 

#### MARY

Enough!

##### [SILENCE] 

#### MARY (CONT'D)

Siva. Come here. 

#### SIVA

...No. 

#### MARY

Fine. 

##### [THE GUN COCKS]

#### ALESTES

SIVA -- GET DOWN--!

##### [MARY FIRES]

##### [ALESTES JUMPS IN FRONT OF HIM]

#### SIVA

...Captain? 

#### GAMMON

You SHOT ALESTES! 

#### MARY

I was AIMING for the *boy!*

#### SIVA

Captain!?

#### ALESTES

_(pained)_ Don't shriek at me, Siva, I'm fine. It's barely... a scratch...

##### [ALESTES COLLAPSES] 

#### SIVA

Alestes? Oh God --

#### BAKER

Noor, get Inez to the ship! 

#### NOOR

But Siva--! 

#### BAKER

Go!

##### [NOOR RUNS] 

#### BAKER (CONT'D)

_(to himself)_ She's alright, she'll be all right. _(louder)_ Siva, get some cloth, I'll stem the blood flow.

##### [SIVA RIPS HIS SHIRT AS BAKER CAREFULLY TURNS ALESTES OVER. CERAMIC SHARDS FALL OUT OF HER INNER POCKET] 

#### SIVA

What -- why was she carrying a plate in her coat?! 

#### GAMMON

Alestes, is she --

#### SIVA

*Don't* come any closer!

#### GAMMON

Some weapon. 

#### SIVA

It's sharp enough to gut you! 

#### GAMMON

It's a shard of plate, boy. Put it down before you hurt yourself.

##### [A DISTANT BELL BEGINS TO CLANG] 

#### BAKER

Oh, what now? 

#### SIVA

That's the British alarm! They'll be able to -- oh no, they're going to -- ohhh no. 

#### MARY

Graham, let's go before the Lieutenant-Colonel sees you fraternising with these people. 

#### GAMMON

I... I need to make sure that Alestes --

#### MARY

You are *this* close to the end of your *ridiculous* plot, Graham. I have jumped when you told me to jump, and I have danced when you told me to dance. We are NOT letting it fail because you've got to watch some thug die on our --

#### GAMMON

Alestes? Alestes, can you hear me? It's me, Gammon. Just, just listen to my voice --

#### SIVA 

STAY BACK!

#### GAMMON

Think carefully about who you're attacking, boy. 

#### MARY

Ignore him, let's GO! 

#### SIVA

Stay where you are, or you're next!

##### [AND THEN: A SHARP BLADE SLITS THROUGH GAMMON'S NECK] 

##### [A THUD]

#### MARY

Graham! 

#### SIVA

...Anh?

#### ANH

Baker. Is Alestes...? 

#### BAKER

Breathing, but...

#### GAMMON

_(choking)_ ...Mary... help... 

#### MARY

Don't try to talk, Graham, it'll be *fine,* it'll be all right. You're going to be fine. 

#### ANH

Take her and go, Baker. 

#### BAKER

But --

#### ANH

Go! Run! 

#### BAKER

...Thank you. 

#### SIVA

She -- she -- slit his -- he's --

#### BAKER

Siva, come on, before the soldiers get here.

##### [BAKER HEFTS ALESTES ON HIS BACK] 

#### ANH

Now. Which one of you shot her? 

#### GAMMON

...Alestes... is she, is she... 

#### MARY

Graham, stay with me...

#### ANH

Answer me! 

##### [SILENCE, OTHER THAN THE BIRDS CHIRPING]

#### MARY

Graham? Graham! No! No, no... 

#### ANH

What's it going to be, Mary?

##### [BAKER AND SIVA BEGIN TO RUN]

#### BAKER

Eyes forward, Siva, don't look back.

##### [BOOM! THE SECOND BOMB GOES OFF]

##### [EXT. NETAOANSOM -- DECK]

#### INEZ

The alarm's sounding. 

#### BAKER

Great, you're up, come with me. 

#### NOOR

Kedge anchor's down. 

#### BAKER

Good job -- get to warping us out. Siva, get that jib unfurled, when I'm back up on deck we'll brace and get out of here.

Don't just stare, go!

#### NOOR

Aye, Baker. 

#### BAKER

Siva?

#### SIVA

I -- I --

#### BAKER

Sails first, breakdown later. Inez, with me!

#### INEZ

Shouldn't I help with --

#### BAKER

Grab your taxidermy tools and meet me in the sickbay.

#### INEZ

Oh -- no -- Baker, we need to get her to a *surgeon* --

#### BAKER

Get us sailing, Noor! 

#### NOOR

Aye-aye!

##### [BAKER BRINGS ALESTES DOWN INTO THE HOLD] 

#### INEZ

The soldiers, they'll come straight here once they find out we were the ones who blew the place up --

#### BAKER

Better not waste our lead by dallying, then.

#### INEZ

And then Gammon and his fleet--!

#### BAKER

Gammon's no longer a problem. But his fleet, yes. That's why we need to hurry. Go on, get your tools!

##### [INEZ HURRIES OFF. BAKER ROLLS THE DOOR OF THE SICK BAY OPEN] 

##### [HE LAYS ALESTES ON THE TABLE, CAREFUL] 

#### BAKER

I've got you, Alestes. We'll get through this, like we always do.

##### [INEZ ENTERS] 

#### BAKER

Clean the wound. Get as many of those plate shards out as you can. The more we can prevent infection, the better. Watch her like a hawk.

##### [THE DOOR BEGINS TO ROLL SHUT] 

#### INEZ

Wait, where are you going?!

#### BAKER

We need to go, Inez. I need to brace the mast.

#### INEZ

But I don't *know* how to --

#### BAKER

You've got this, Inez. I believe in you.

##### [BAKER LEAVES]

#### INEZ

_(to himself)_ You've got this, Inez. You've got this.

##### [INT. NETAOANSOM -- DAY]

##### [THE SHIP IS SAILING AT A CLIP] 

#### INEZ

-- but to have been unconscious like this for days, now?

#### NOOR

If it was an infection, you'd think there would be some kind of smell, or fever...

#### INEZ

Maybe there was some... poison on the bullet?

#### SIVA

No. She looked bad before the bullet hit her. And then -- after -- she was still standing. But it looked like she was convulsing.

#### NOOR

And now the shallow breathing... the heart flutters...

#### INEZ

I bet you Baker knows, but he's been keeping it from us. Trying to make her seem stronger than she is, you know. Prevent mutinies.

#### NOOR

Now is not the time for conspiracies, Inez!

#### INEZ

Keeping himself busy, so we can't ask him questions --

#### NOOR

He is worried, and he is panicking. He is not being purposefully deceitful.

#### INEZ

You've always had a soft spot for him.

#### SIVA

Isn't there something you could do, Inez?

#### INEZ

I'm a taxidermist, not a damned physician. And what's she ever done for us, anyway.

#### SIVA

_(softly)_ She's come to save me, every time.

##### [INEZ SCOFFS]

#### NOOR

...We can't just watch her slip away like this. We have to find her someone who can help.

#### INEZ

And where do you suggest we go? When word gets out that we attacked the Governor --

#### NOOR

We don't know that it will. Anh and Mary might keep it under wraps.

#### INEZ

Or they might do the exact opposite of that and prevent us from docking anywhere off the coast of Asia!

##### [PENSIVE SILENCE]

##### [THE DOOR ROLLS OPEN]

#### BAKER

...Siva.

#### SIVA

Uh, yes, Baker?

#### BAKER

Take these.

##### [BAKER HANDS OVER MAPS, SIVA PAGES THROUGH THEM]

#### SIVA

The Atlantic -- and the Caribbean?

#### BAKER

You're on navigation. Plot us the quickest route West.

#### SIVA

I don't know how to --

#### BAKER

Tools are on the Captain's desk. You're smart, you'll figure it out.

#### SIVA

Oh. Uh. Aye, sir.

#### BAKER

Noor, Inez, with me.

#### NOOR & INEZ

Aye, Baker.

##### [EXT. JAMAICA -- ELIZABETH'S HOUSE -- EVENING]

##### [BAKER WALKS THE PATH TO ELIZABETH'S HOUSE AND KNOCKS ON THE DOOR] 

#### ELIZABETH

You again, cousin.

#### BAKER

You remember me.

#### ELIZABETH

I remember the trouble that one gave me.

Come on in out the rain, then. Let's save ourselves a Captain.

##### [THE SOUND OF A STORM -- AND MIXING WITH IT, A CALMING VOICE:]

#### ZHU ANRAN

Hey hey, little carp  
Flying through the river there  
Watch how she swims

#### ZHU ANRAN & NDILISWA

Underneath sun-warmed streams  
Dazzling collar made from beads  
Dancing, dancing, dance upstream...

Face painted white and gold  
Over cheeks and above eyes  
Dancing, dancing, dance upstream

#### ZHU ANRAN

Watch how she swims  
Dancing, dancing, dance upstream  
Dancing, dancing, dance upstream  
Dancing, dancing, dance...

##### [SHOW THEME -- OUTRO]

#### ANNOUNCER

*Trice Forgotten* is a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill and licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Noncommercial Sharealike 4.0 International License. The series is created by Nemo Martin and directed by Rafaella Marcus. Today's episode was written by Nemo Martin and edited by Nico Vettese, Lowri Ann Davies, Katharine Seaton, and Catherine Rinella.

*Trice Forgotten* features: Rebecca Brough, Naomi Bartoo, Vic Zander, Shahan Hamza, Gigi Zahir, Ashley Goh, Lowri Ann Davies, Tim Meredith, James Makepeace. Additional voices by Helen Gould and Joe Bence. *Trice Forgotten* is produced by Lowri Ann Davies, Ian Geers, and production manager Natasha Johnston, with executive producers Alexander J Newall and April Sumner.

To subscribe, view associated materials, or join our Patreon, visit rustyquill.com. Rate and review us online, tweet us @therustyquill, visit us on Facebook, or email us at mail@rustyquill.com. Thanks for listening.
