---
layout:          post
title:           "SEAS 5 - Trawl"
date:            2022-09-14 11:00:00 -0400
episode_type:      episode
tags:            []
voiced:          [Alestes, Noor, Inez, Baker, Siva]
categories:			"tf"
podcasts: ["tf"]
title_prefix:	"SEAS"
prev_categories: ["tf"]
prev_prefixes: ["SEAS"]
prev_episode:	['0041-belowdecks3']
prev_episode_num:		['004.1']
prev_episode_title:		["Below Decks 3 - Nautical Collections in the 19th Century"]
episode_title:   'Trawl'
episode_number:  '005'
summary:         "Herring & Marnock Esq's Dictionary of Nautical and Pyratical Terms, 1849: trawl: a manner of fishing involving the towing of submerged nets; laborious<br/><br/>In which a schemer arrives, a net is constructed, and something long dead is hunted."
content_flags:   ["Sickness & nausea", "Emetophobia", "Food & malnutrition", "Discussions of: Medical care & medicine, animal death", "Mentions of: Guilt", "SFX: Sustained high pitched SFX, continuous low tones, retching, stomach noises, metallic clanking, squelching (fish), wind & waves, creaking"]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/trice-forgotten/seas-5-trawl
formats:
official:        true
---

##### [SHOW THEME - INTRO] 

#### ANH

Rusty Quill Presents: Trice Forgotten.

Episode 5: Trawl.

##### [THEME FADES OUT]

##### [TENSE MUSIC FADES IN]

##### [INT. *NETAOANSOM* -- CAPTAIN'S CABIN -- EARLY MORNING]

#### ALESTES

_(weak)_ Please...

##### [A PAINED GROAN]

I'm *sorry!* Whoever you are... Whatever I've done to you...

_(straining)_ I can make it right. Please! Just please... Stop this...!

##### [THREE KNOCKS]

##### [THE CABIN DOOR ROLLS OPEN WITH A RESOUNDING SLAM]

##### [TENSE MUSIC STOPS IMMEDIATELY]

#### ALESTES

*Baker!* _(pained)_ Baker...

#### NOOR

Baker's not coming.

##### [NOISES OF SOMETHING BEING POURED]

#### ALESTES

Please... I need to see him.

#### NOOR

Mm.

##### [STIRRING, CLINKING]

Drink this. 

#### ALESTES

Baker! Baker...

#### NOOR

He's in the sickbay with Siva. 

#### ALESTES

_(darkly)_ He should be here with me.

#### NOOR

Come on, Captain! Take a few small sips for me. 

#### ALESTES

How do I know it's not more poison?

#### NOOR

_(small snort, then, matter-of-fact:)_ If I wanted to poison you, I'd have done it while you were still delirious, so you didn't know it was me. 

#### ALESTES

Did *you* do this to me?!

#### NOOR

Why would I poison everyone I work with? 

#### ALESTES

To steal my treasure! 

#### NOOR

_(chuckles)_ What treasure would that be, 'ukhtaa? 

#### ALESTES

Oooohhhhh, tricky trickster. Trying to steal your bracelets back!

#### NOOR

I didn't poison you, Captain.

#### ALESTES

If it wasn't you, then -- _(strain)_ how come you're fine?

#### NOOR

_(gently)_ Probably because I'm the only one that did not eat the fish that was slimy and smelled *bad.* 

#### INEZ

_(calling, far away)_ Hellloooooo? 

##### [BEAT]

#### NOOR

I'll go see who that is. 

#### ALESTES

Whoever it is, tell them I can *still shoot fine* and I won't be -- _(pained groan)_

#### NOOR

Drink your medicine, Captain. 

##### [THEIR FOOTSTEPS RECEDE, AND THE DOOR ROLLS BACK SHUT]

##### [INT. *NETAOANSOM* -- GALLEY -- DAY]

#### NOOR

That's Siva, he's Baker.

#### INEZ

_(friendly)_ Uncleeee! How was the fish? 

##### [BAKER HISSES OUT A BREATH]

#### NOOR

That's a bit of a raw subject. 

#### INEZ

_(audible smirk)_ Listen, I'm not the kind of person who says "I told you so"...

#### BAKER

Did you need something? 

#### SIVA

You two know one another?

#### INEZ

We met at the market! 

#### BAKER

Ah, the concerned traveller was giving unsolicited advice. 

#### INEZ

Make a nice kinilaw, did we? Squeeze of kalamansi to cut through the smell? If you have any left I'd *love* to study it --

#### NOOR

You said you had a proposition? 

#### INEZ

_(beat)_ Yes! Let me be frank. I've been watching your crew come and go. 

#### BAKER

You've been *watching* us? For how long? 

#### INEZ

Enough time to assume we're all family here. 

#### SIVA

Oh, no, we're not related. 

#### INEZ

Ay, no, the other kind of family.

#### SIVA

_(still has no idea)_ Riiiigghhht.

Yes. Of course.

...I completely understand!

#### NOOR

Let's say we are. 

#### INEZ

Perfect! I thought about asking one of these other fishing boats, you know, but it gets exhausting, explaining every time: "My name is Inez de Luna, I am sometimes a man, sometimes a woman, sometimes nothing, sometimes *everything,* and I come with a job offer." So I say to myself: Inez, where else is a girl like you to go with a goldmine like this? 

##### [A DOOR SLAMS OPEN IN THE BACKGROUND]

#### ALESTES

_(still very strained)_ Did someone say gold? 

#### INEZ

Jesus, where did you come from? 

#### ALESTES

Where did you come from? 

#### NOOR

*You* should be in bed, Captain. 

#### ALESTES

Took the medicine. Feeling better. Tell me about the money. 

#### INEZ

So there's this fish --

##### [A CHORUS OF GROANS]

#### ALESTES

Nope. 

#### INEZ

But --

#### ALESTES

Fish are forbidden from my vicinity until -- _(a wave of pain)_ _(catches her breath)_ Until I say so. 

#### INEZ

This is a boat. How can you forbid fish?

#### ALESTES

It's a *ship,* and as Captain, my word is final. 

#### INEZ

_(sizing Alestes up)_ ...All right. 

#### ALESTES

All right. 

#### INEZ

_(long, gusty sigh)_ _(melodramatically sad)_ I suppose the soldiers on the *Exchange* will appreciate an extra grand or two. 

#### SIVA

The *Exchange?* That's Mr. Blair's ship! 

#### ALESTES

Mr. Blair? 

#### SIVA

He's a naturalist. He works for the Queen's Museum in London! 

#### ALESTES

Did you get kidnapped again? 

#### SIVA

No! 

#### NOOR

His brain did.

#### SIVA

He was very nice, and he gave me a book! 

#### INEZ

There are people from the Queen's Museum on the *Exchange?* 

#### SIVA

Mhm! He's on a field expedition collecting samples. 

#### INEZ

_(laughs to himself)_ They won't even *want* the money. Well, it was a pleasure meeting you all.

##### [FOOTSTEPS START OFF]

#### SIVA

Likewise!

#### BAKER

_(darkly)_ Good riddance.

#### ALESTES

Wait. 

##### [FOOTSTEPS STOP]

#### INEZ

"Wait"? 

#### ALESTES

Exactly how much money did you say this fish was worth? 

##### [CHEERFUL VIOLIN TRANSITION MUSIC]

##### [EXT. *NETAOANSOM* -- DECK -- DAY]

##### [THE *NETAOANSOM* IS SAILING -- WIND IN THE SAILS, WOOD CREAKS, CHAINS RATTLE AND ROPE PULLS]

##### [SIVA SETS SOMETHING DOWN WITH A GRUNT]

#### SIVA

This was the last coil of rope I could find in the hold. 

#### INEZ

Let us hope it's enough. 

#### NOOR

A fish is a fish, no? Why must we make such a device? 

#### SIVA

Yeah! Noor taught me how to catch stingrays with my bare hands! I'm a dab hand at it!

#### NOOR

_(amused)_ You certainly showed improvement. 

#### INEZ

No, no, the *real* money is in the *data.* See these weights? _(metallic clinking)_ They ensure that the trawl isn't just trailing behind the ship but goes to a specific depth. Doing it this way, we mark the exact location.

#### NOOR

And this, ah...

#### SIVA

Coelacanth! _(delighted with realisation)_ From the Greek! Koilos, "hollow," and akantha, "spine"! Though -- they've clearly gone with the modern Latin adaptation, Cœlacanthus, hence the "see" sound!

#### NOOR

They'd really pay that much money for a fish? 

#### INEZ

If found alive, confirmed alive, it would be an unparalleled scientific discovery. 

#### NOOR

But... it's a fish.

##### [INEZ PULLS SOMETHING OUT, FLIPS THROUGH PAGES]

#### INEZ

Here, look. 

#### SIVA

Did you paint these? 

#### NOOR

_(tone shift)_ Oh.

...

_(awed)_ They're beautiful.

Oh, this one -- _(flips a page)_ we catch them in Aden. The scale pattern -- you have it perfectly.

#### INEZ

Thank you! It took many attempts -- the angle, counting the *blasted* finrays... but it's not right. I can't make the paint shimmer the way the scales do in reality, you know?

#### SIVA

Can you not, er, varnish it? With some sort of lacquer? 

#### INEZ

_(sighs)_ The whole piece would be shiny and stiff, not just the scales. 

#### SIVA

Ah. Right. Y-yes.

#### NOOR

...I have seen, long ago, a painter who would visit the silversmiths, asking for the dust and scrapings. He would grind it into his paint, and then he would finish the work with a glaze of honey.

He painted hummingbirds. Oh, the light would shine from their feathers, in a way I have seen no other artist's work capture.

#### INEZ

Honey and silver? Huh. I'll attempt that next time. Thank you, Noor. 

#### NOOR

_(a moment of budding friendship)_ My pleasure. 

#### SIVA

Didn't you have something you wanted to show us? About the coelacanth? 

##### [A FEW MORE PAGES ARE FLIPPED]

#### INEZ

Ah. This is a reproduction of the fossil they discovered recently. With a hollow spine, as you observed, Siva. If the fossil evidence is correct, the coelacanth is the missing link between the fish and the four-legged land animal. 

#### SIVA

The "missing link"? They believe it's still alive?

#### INEZ

_(laughs)_ They don't! They think it as dead as the dinosaur -- they haven't even considered it might have living ancestors, let alone...

#### SIVA

So we're on a wild goose chase! 

#### INEZ

No, no, my friend. This is where naturalist-extraordinaire Inez de Luna comes in. Men like your buddies on the *Exchange,* they pick about in rockpools and markets, then they order their "local boys" to keep their eyes out for anything special while *they* go have their high teas in their lodgings. But me? I saw one. 

#### SIVA

You did? 

#### INEZ

I swear it. A flash, before my very eyes. _(lost in memory)_ Large, two yards at least -- and a beautiful, matte dark, covered in white specks... like stars in the clearest night sky. It was stunning.

#### NOOR

Why not catch it *then?*

#### INEZ

_(back to reality; abrupt)_ I was not in a position to do so. 

#### SIVA

Why not? 

#### INEZ

Because I wasn't. 

##### [INEZ HAULS SOMETHING UP, WITH EFFORT]

Right. This should be tight enough. Let's give this net a trial run, shall we? 

##### [DRUMMING TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

##### [EXT. *NETAOANSOM* -- DECK -- AFTERNOON]

#### INEZ

_(yelling in time to the music)_ Heave! Heave! Heave!

##### [ON EACH "HEAVE," EVERYONE PULLS, GRUNTING FROM THE EFFORT]

Last spurt, let's go. And, heave! Heave! Heave!

##### [SOMETHING LARGE FLOPS OVER ONBOARD]

##### [EVERYONE PANTS, CATCHING THEIR BREATH]

#### ALESTES

_(calling from further away)_ Anything? 

#### INEZ

Give me a moment.

#### ALESTES

It's a big bugger, isn't it? Can't you tell on sight? 

#### BAKER

_(still panting)_ The process would go faster, _(pant)_ if we had the whole crew hauling. 

#### ALESTES

I am, unfortunately, indisposed at the moment. 

#### NOOR

Would you like me to prepare you another dose of stomach medicine, habibti? 

#### ALESTES

Oh, no, no. I'll just stand back here and let you all do the heavy lifting while I recover.

#### INEZ

If she's injured, it'll only slow us down.

#### SIVA

_(frustrated exhale)_ What does she even do on this ship?

#### INEZ

No. Not here.

##### [SIVA MAKES A DISAPPOINTED NOISE]

#### BAKER

Right, let's pick out the best-eating fish and throw the rest back. 

#### NOOR

We have already filled two barrels. May we not free this load? 

#### BAKER

Who knows when we'll have a bounty like this again? 

#### NOOR

And who do you expect to gut and salt a hold's worth of fish?

##### [AWKWARD SILENCE] 

Come on, Siva! Let's throw them back while Baker and Inez prepare the next trawl. 

#### SIVA

Could we, perhaps, take a tea break? My hands... they're not used to this kind of work.

#### INEZ

We've only done three trawls. But if you need the break... Baker? Noor? 

#### NOOR

I could keep going. 

#### BAKER

It's a bit early to start a fire, just for tea... 

#### SIVA

R-r-right. Yes. Of course.

...A couple more rounds.

##### [DRUMMING TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

##### [EXT. *NETAOANSOM* -- DECK -- EVENING]

#### BAKER

HEAVE! HEAVE!

##### [THE NET ONCE AGAIN FLOPS ABOARD; EVERYONE PANTS]

#### SIVA

My blisters are growing blisters!

#### BAKER

Another few days of this and you'll have muscles like mine and Noor's, Siva.

#### SIVA

Cartographers don't need *muscles,* they need working fingers!

#### NOOR

I didn't think I would miss this. But it's nice. ...Familiar. 

#### BAKER

Your family would use nets in their fishing? 

#### NOOR

Yes.

...In Aden, we would take out our four boats, and we would create a square between us. The net would go down and all of us would pull as one. You had to make sure you had the right balance -- _(laughs to themself)_ Amr akhi would never think and always pulled too hard, too soon. Half the time I thought he was doing it on purpose, trying to get us to fall in.

#### BAKER

I've been on many ships with the same type. So eager to prove his worth, he shows how inexperienced he is. Hell, as a young man, me and your brother would have got along very well.

#### INEZ

_(sighs)_ It's not here.

#### BAKER

We're losing light, let's go again in the morning. 

#### INEZ

But --

#### BAKER

We'll work better after food and rest. 

#### INEZ

...Fine. 

##### [SOFTER VERSION OF THE SAME TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

##### [EXT. *NETAOANSOM* -- DECK -- DAY]

#### INEZ

Steady... steady...

#### NOOR

Baker? Why is the ship called the *Netaoansom?* Does it have a meaning? 

#### BAKER

Mm.

In Mi'kma'ki, where I grew up, the Elders there tell us the Creation story. Upon the Earth, Ootsitgamoo, all life is given to us from our Mother Earth. Not too long after everything was created, the Life-Giver caused bolts of lightning to strike and hit the earth. It formed the shape of a person: Glooscap.

After thanking the creators, Glooscap now started to explore his world around him. Glooscap one day decided he would walk down to the water. As he was walking along the sweet-smelling grass, a young man stood up in front of him. He was tall and he had long hair and white sparkling eyes.

_(in Glooscap's voice)_ "Who are you, where did you come from?"

He said: "I am your sister's son, Netaoansom. Far out in the ocean, Widjosin the whirlwind caused the water to foam up, and foam began to form on top of the water, and finally was blown along the sand, and it rested on this tall, sweet-smelling grass. And with the help of the Life-Giver and the Shadow-Giver and Mother Earth, they gave me a life of a young man. I have strength in my arms and my legs. I can run and help Grandmother and you. I-I have vision. With my eyes, I can see far into the future. You will be able to be guided by my strength, my vision. And I also am gifted with the spirit to guide you."

So Glooscap was happy that his nephew came into the world. He called upon the fish from the waters to come ashore. And he told his nephew: "Gather the fish and bring them to Grandmother, because it's the fish that will give us food and medicine and tools." So, they had a feast of fish to celebrate Glooscap's nephew's arrival to the world.

_(takes a breath)_ Our ship, the *Netaoansom,* has the speed, the strength and the vision of the young who follow us. He is a reminder: how one lives their life has its great effect on those who come seven generations after you.

##### [A RESPECTFUL BEAT OF SILENCE]

#### NOOR

You blessed the ship with a beautiful name. 

#### BAKER

I didn't name the ship. Alestes did.

#### SIVA

The Captain?!

#### BAKER

She has a good heart in her, as much as she likes to pretend that she doesn't. 

#### INEZ

Come, friends. On my mark...

##### [DRUMMING MUSIC IS BACK]

And, HEAVE. And --

##### [TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

##### [EXT. *NETAOANSOM* -- DECK -- NIGHT]

#### ALESTES

_(distant)_ HELP! HELP!

#### BAKER

Noor, Inez, you go! Siva, hold the line with me. 

##### [RUNNING FOOTSTEPS]

#### ALESTES

_(absolutely delighted)_ It's the motherload!

#### INEZ

You've been over here rod-fishing?!

#### ALESTES

Come on, help me! 

#### INEZ

I can't believe -- I thought you were *ill!*

#### NOOR

Captain, lean into me, here, I'll anchor you while you pull. Inez, you grab a net! 

#### ALESTES

This is it! I can feel it! _(audible grin)_ Oh, we're feasting tonight, crew! It's a tuna for sure! 

#### NOOR

Reel!

##### [REELING NOISES]

And now some slack. Reel!

##### [MORE REELING, GRUNTS]

#### INEZ

I see it, I see it!

##### [A SUDDEN SPLASH AS THE PRIZE IS HAULED OUT OF THE WATER]

#### ALESTES

YES! YESSSS!

#### INEZ

Oh my God. 

#### ALESTES

What an ugly bastard! 

#### INEZ

_(ignoring her)_ Cosmoid scales, three-lobed caudal fin --

#### NOOR

Baker, Siva! Drop the trawl! Come help!

##### [FRANTIC FOOTSTEPS]

##### [NOISES OF LIFTING]

#### ALESTES

What are you doing?! 

#### NOOR

Come on, you too -- lift! 

#### ALESTES

My fish! M-my catch, my dinner -- where are you taking it?!

#### SIVA

Matte dark, covered in white specks like stars... 

#### NOOR

Let's go down to the aquarium, quick! 

##### [INT. *NETAOANSOM* -- AQUARIUM -- NIGHT]

##### [BUBBLING NOISES]

#### SIVA

It's definitely not two yards. 

#### INEZ

But the patterning -- definitely the same, or similar.

#### BAKER

A child, perhaps? 

#### ALESTES

_(babytalking)_ Little baby's gonna bring mummy the gold, yeah? Beautiful money baby!

#### INEZ

A shame it's not an adult, but I'm sure the insides will be just as valuable.

#### SIVA

Insides?! 

#### INEZ

Tomorrow we do a full anatomical dissection. Who's to say, we might even find some amphibious quirks --

_(realising)_ Did any of you notice whether it seemed to have lung capacity on deck? And the rod! We have to note the depth your line went -- but, agh, without the weights, who's to say the line was fully perpendicular --

#### SIVA

We can't kill it! 

#### INEZ

What? Why? 

#### SIVA

Look how cute it is!

#### INEZ

"Cute"?

...Siva, you understand what this specimen will mean to the development of our understanding of *human lineage.* Yes?

#### NOOR

I think it would be a shame to kill such a creature. 

#### INEZ

Oh, come on! 

#### BAKER

If they are a child... we should return them. 

#### INEZ

It's not a *baby* we've orphaned! It's an adolescent at least -- perhaps -- who knows, hundreds of years old. 

#### BAKER

You know that? For certain? 

#### INEZ

Baker, that Glooscap story. They had a feast of fish. 

#### BAKER

That's... 

#### INEZ

Different? I'll offer anything that'll appease you. Tobacco, sweetgrass -- and I'll use every part of it, and I'll give thanks to whichever Creator you want me to thank. 

#### BAKER

You do not take the first you find, in case they are the last! 

#### INEZ

Uh-huh. That ethos work out in your previous jobs? 

#### BAKER

_(uncharacteristically dark)_ What would you know about --

#### ALESTES

_(changing the subject)_ It wasn't that hard to catch. I caught it in an hour on the line. 

#### SIVA

We were trawling for four days! 

#### ALESTES

I go out there, catch another, make them breed, we raise the eggs! BAM. Money maker, guaranteed.

#### INEZ

If we don't kill it, we can't dissect it to count its bones, look at its organs, see what it has in its stomach, see what it's eaten in the wild. 

#### SIVA

What if it's one of the last of its species? One of the last and we just... cut it up like it's *nothing.*

_(clearly projecting onto the fish)_ Maybe it has a family. That loves it more than anything in the world.

##### [THE CREW CONSIDER THE FISH, AND ONE ANOTHER, FOR A MOMENT] 

#### ALESTES

Keep it alive.

#### INEZ

But --

#### ALESTES

I caught it. You didn't. It's mine to make do with as I see fit, and we're keeping it until I know whether it's worth more dead or alive. 

#### INEZ

Do none of you understand what --

#### NOOR

Inez, your drawings. The scales, the colouration... that will take a while, no?

#### INEZ

...It will. 

#### NOOR

Why not make a start with those? 

##### [BEAT]

#### INEZ

Fine. But I'm not leaving this ship until I'm satisfied. 

#### ALESTES

And here I thought, as Captain, *I* chose who stayed aboard. 

#### INEZ

_(matter-of-fact)_ I get a wage equivalent to Baker's for any labour undertaken on the ship, I demand my own compartment, and I will have this documented in a written contract. 

##### [NOOR HUMS, IMPRESSED]

#### SIVA

Should... er, should *we* have contracts like that? 

#### NOOR

_(thoughtful)_ We very much should.

#### INEZ

And Alestes?

_(darkly)_ Unlike the rest of your associates, I won't be gutted in an alleyway over a fight about prices. 

#### ALESTES

_(smiling threat)_ Welcome to the crew, Inez. 

##### [PENSIVE TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

##### [INT. *NETAOANSOM* -- CAPTAIN'S CABIN -- NIGHT]

##### [A FEW QUICK RAPS ON THE DOOR]

#### ALESTES

Enter.

##### [THE DOOR ROLLS OPEN]

#### BAKER

I've come to apologise. 

#### ALESTES

For...? 

#### BAKER

_(huffs a sigh)_ I noticed you kept yourself distant, this week. More than usual.

#### ALESTES

You expect the Captain to be out there hauling nets and singing folk songs?

#### BAKER

And you've been eating badly --

#### ALESTES

Can you blame me? 

#### BAKER

And your colour's been off. 

#### ALESTES

What's your point, old man? 

#### BAKER

I'm sorry. I acted with pride at the market, and made you ill, but -- you don't need to protect my feelings. You must punish me in front of the crew. 

#### ALESTES

_(genuinely surprised)_ Why would I do that? 

#### BAKER

To uphold your image. You heard Inez, she doesn't see you as a Captain.

#### ALESTES

No. She doesn't.

#### BAKER

Because you've been lenient on me.

##### [BEAT]

#### ALESTES

I'm glad she's choosing to join us. 

#### BAKER

You are? 

#### ALESTES

I am. She *pisses* me off, and I'm sure I'll want to gut her by the end of the week, but... _(inhale)_ it's entertaining, isn't it? The challenge? I think I understand that desire better. Him better. 

#### BAKER

Hm.

That sounds like something someone building a permanent crew might say. 

#### ALESTES

_(thoughtful noise)_ Does it?

#### BAKER

...Is that something you want? 

#### ALESTES

A real crew... _(deliberately light)_ might not be so bad. 

#### BAKER

A real crew, a real future... Not so bad at all.

But we've got plenty of time for conversations like that. Right now, you look tired. You get some rest, I'll make you something warm, all right? 

#### ALESTES

No slime this time, Baker. 

#### BAKER

_(laughs)_ I can't promise you much, but I can assure you we're never eating mystery slime fish again.

##### [ALESTES SNORTS LIGHTLY]

##### [THE DOOR ROLLS SHUT]

##### [BEAT]

##### [A DRAWER IS OPENED, THEN CLOSED. THE CLINKING OF A PLATE ON A TABLE.]

##### [ALESTES HUMS THE LAST FEW BARS OF ZHU ANRAN'S LULLABY.]

#### ALESTES

A real crew. _(thoughtful)_ ...Huh.

##### [SHOW THEME - OUTRO] 

#### SIVA

*Trice Forgotten* is a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill and licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Sharealike 4.0 International License. The series is created by Nemo Martin and directed by Rafaella Marcus. Today's episode was written and directed by Rafaella Marcus and edited by Nico Vettese, Maddy Searle, Katharine Seaton, and Catherine Rinella.

*Trice Forgotten* features Rebecca Brough, Vic Zander, Shahan Hamza, Ashley Goh, and Gigi Zahir. *Trice Forgotten* is produced by Ian Geers, Lowri Ann Davies, and production manager Natasha Johnston, with executive producers Alexander J Newall and April Sumner.

To subscribe, view associated materials, or join our Patreon, visit rustyquill.com. Rate and review us online, tweet us @therustyquill, visit us on Facebook or email us at mail@rustyquill.com. Thanks for listening.
