---
layout:          post
title:           "OTCW003 - Half Sunk"
date:            2023-12-08 12:00:00 -0400
episode_type:      episode
categories:			"neon"
podcasts: ["neon"]
neon_category:   ["otcw"]
title_prefix:	"OTCW"
prev_categories: ["neon"]
prev_prefixes: ["OTCW"]
prev_episode:   ['002']
prev_episode_num:		['002']
prev_episode_title:		["Boundless and Bare"]
next_categories: ["neon"]
next_prefixes: ["OTCW"]
next_episode:   ['004']
next_episode_num:		['004']
next_episode_title:		["The Hand That Fed"]
episode_title:   "Half Sunk"
episode_number:  '003'
summary:         "The group fortify their position, Luna gets curious."
content_flags:   ["Peril", "Isolation", "Existential Loneliness", "Mentions of: Blood", "Discussions of: Post-apocalpse, human extinction", "SFX: ominous whistling"]
acast_url:       https://shows.acast.com/6553c68578cd3a00121a9b8f/65648e67f1e94c0012ac7008
formats: 
    PDF: https://rustyquillcom.sharepoint.com/Shared%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx?ga=1&id=%2FShared%20Documents%2FRusty%20Quill%20Public%20Access%2FTranscripts%2FNeon%20Inkwell%2FOf%20That%20Colossal%20Wreck%2FOf%20That%20Colossal%20Wreck%20%2D%20Episode%202%2Epdf&viewid=585e2cf0%2Dc969%2D4847%2Dad54%2D2302c335d0a1&parent=%2FShared%20Documents%2FRusty%20Quill%20Public%20Access%2FTranscripts%2FNeon%20Inkwell%2FOf%20That%20Colossal%20Wreck
official:        true
wiki_url:        
---

<!-- #### 1. INT. ANOTHER BROKEN AWAKENING ROOM -->

##### [The ever-present hum of the station, but quieter, a little broken and stuttering]

##### [A low, long whistle -- then the cracking and snapping of a whistling creature]

##### [It is moving slowly, deliberately... as though on the hunt for something]

##### [We hear breathing nearby -- stifled and scared]

#### LUNA

_(Whispered)_ Levi...

##### [Levi shushes her]

##### [A long, tense moment]

##### [A whistle sounds from outside the room, then another]

##### [The creature nearby lets out an answering whistle, then begins to move, the sounds of its cracking joints growing more distant]

##### [Finally, Luna and Levi exhale]

#### LEVI

You alright? 

#### LUNA

Yeah, I think so. Once my heart stops racing. You? 

#### LEVI

Few cuts, but I'll live. Someone oughta sweep up all this broken glass.

##### [It's almost a joke, but he can't bring himself to laugh.] 

#### LUNA

What *was* that thing? 

#### LEVI

Things. And I have no idea. Don't suppose you saw where the others ended up? 

#### LUNA

I think we got separated in that big generator room. 

#### LEVI

Oh, shit. There were a bunch of them in there. 

#### LUNA

We should go back. The others... 

#### LEVI

Yeah... Yeah, just, let's take a moment first and catch our breath.

#### LUNA

Why do you think it attacked us? 

#### LEVI

Because it's a huge bug thing, and that's what huge bug things do! 

#### LUNA

Not a bug. It only had four legs. 

#### LEVI

No, it's not a bug. It's not *anything!* It doesn't even have a head! And those weren't "legs." They're too long, too many joints...

##### [Beat]

#### LEVI

_(slightly calmer)_ Look, if you want an actual answer, I think it probably wants to eat us. 

#### LUNA

Or it was defending its territory. 

#### LEVI

What does it matter? 

#### LUNA

Nothing acts without a reason. 

#### LEVI

And understanding that reason isn't going to stop it eating you.

##### [In the distance, another chorus of whistles]

#### LUNA

Do you think they've found the others?

##### [Beat]

#### LEVI

Let's see if we can get these doors to work without Mira. We can figure out our next move once we've got some steel between us and those... those things. 

------

##### [We shift to a large open space]

##### [Very close by: fast, panicked hyperventilating breaths]

#### RILEY

_(under their breath)_ shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit 

#### ZACK

Riley. Hey, Riley, look at me. That's it, just look at me. 'Kay? Try to match my breathing, okay?

##### [Zack inhales and exhales slowly, deliberately]

##### [Riley's breaths shudder as they try to match him]

##### [Quiet footsteps approach:]

#### MIRA

I think we're good for now. How are they? 

#### ZACK

I think we're good too. Aren't we, Riley? 

#### RILEY

Yeah... Yeah. Sorry. 

#### ZACK

No need to apologise. It's a perfectly natural reaction. 

#### RILEY

Are they, um... are they, are they near us? 

#### MIRA

There's a bunch of them all over the generator room. I think they're covering the exits out. 

#### ZACK

Well, if you're looking for proof of intelligence... 

#### MIRA

I wasn't.

#### RILEY

Shouldn't we be staying quiet, if they're -- if they're still around? 

#### MIRA

Maybe. I don't know. Haven't been able to figure out what senses they hunt with yet. 

#### ZACK

With the whistling, I'd rather assumed some form of echolocation. 

#### MIRA

Yeah, but the whole station's humming and vibrating the whole time. If that's how they see, then we'd be pretty much clear as day. Plus they didn't really seem to react when Riley--...

#### RILEY

_(wincing)_ When I screamed?

#### ZACK

_(cutting in)_ To be honest, their whole physiology is fascinating. I mean, there's no head, and nothing I could see that looked like eyes or ears or any other "standard" sensory organ. 

#### MIRA

Sure, but none of us got a particularly good look. 

#### ZACK

No. I suppose that's one of the downsides of fleeing. 

#### MIRA

The upside is you stay alive. 

#### RILEY

Grasshoppers have their ears on their knees, right? Or at least, they did. I guess they're all gone now as well. 

#### ZACK

It's certainly a possibility. 

#### MIRA

Well, however they sense their prey, the generators here seem to confuse them a bit. Might be why they junked so many of them up. 

#### ZACK

You've jumped to the idea of "prey" pretty quickly. 

#### MIRA

You saw those smashed pods. The way I see it, these things have been making their way through a massive larder full of frozen meals. 

#### RILEY

_(shivering slightly)_ I feel a bit like a frozen dinner myself. 

#### ZACK

That'll be your body's stress responses. _(to Mira)_ We need to get Riley somewhere warmer. 

#### MIRA

Easier said than done. 

#### RILEY

_(shivering more)_ Don't worry. I'll be fine. 

#### ZACK

I'll be the judge of that. 

#### MIRA

Come on, on your feet. Zack, you still got any of those blankets? 

#### ZACK

Dropped them with most of the food, I'm afraid. 

#### MIRA

Okay, well, let's see what we can find.

##### [They get to their feet]

##### [A very nearby single whistle is answered by a chorus] 

#### MIRA

Quietly.

------

##### [Back in the smaller room with Luna and Levi]

##### [The sounds of dragging something heavy -- scraping, metal-on-metal noises]

#### LEVI

Can you give me a hand with this? 

#### LUNA

What are you doing? 

#### LEVI

See those ventilation shafts? We need to cover them up so these things can't get in. 

#### LUNA

Are you sure? I mean, the shafts are pretty small. 

#### LEVI

You ever seen how small a hole a mouse can squeeze through? 

#### LUNA

No. And technically neither have you.

##### [The dragging stops]

#### LEVI

Look, are you going to help me or not? 

#### LUNA

We need to go and find the others. 

#### LEVI

We need to get this room secured, so if they come this way we can protect them. If we go looking we might end up missing each other. It's better if we stay here.

##### [Beat.]

#### LUNA

Levi, it's okay to be scared. Those things out there are --

#### LEVI

I'm not scared of them. I mean, I am, but... Mira and the others. If they're dead. If those things got them, I-I can't see that. I can't lose anyone else.

##### [A pause]

#### LUNA

I understand. I really do. But I can't just wait here. I've got to try and find them. 

#### LEVI

What if they get you as well? I can't be the only one left. I won't. 

#### LUNA

I'll be back, Levi. I promise. 

#### LEVI

You can't make that promise. 

#### LUNA

Maybe not. But unless you physically stop me, I'm going to look for them.

##### [A moment of silence; no one moves]

#### LUNA

Besides, they've got a better chance of finding this place with someone to guide them. You get this place properly secured, okay? Maybe see if you can get a small fire going. 

#### LEVI

You want me to set a fire in a wake-up room? You do remember last time, right? 

#### LUNA

A small fire. I'd rather not be worrying about frostbite as well as those things. 

#### LEVI

I'll see what I can do.

##### [Luna opens the door]

##### [A far-off whistling] 

#### LUNA

Wish me luck! 

#### LEVI

Yeah. 

------

<!-- #### 4. INT. A SMALL STORAGE AREA NEXT TO THE GENERATOR ROOM

MIRA is tinkering with the pipework next to a liquid hydrogen tank, while Zack and Riley watch. Riley is still shivery.  -->

##### [Sounds of mechanical tinkering]

#### RILEY

_(still shivery)_ You sure this is going to work? 

#### MIRA

Nope. 

#### ZACK

I mean, they do seem to actually like the cold. 

#### MIRA

Heh. There's cold, Zack, and then there's liquid hydrogen. 

#### ZACK

And the generators don't need it? 

#### MIRA

These tanks look like they connect to the broken ones, so fingers crossed we're not breaking anything new. 

#### ZACK

Fingers crossed? 

#### MIRA

Look, I'm open to any other ideas that aren't "just keep hiding."

#### ZACK

Point taken. 

#### MIRA

We need to get out of here and find somewhere Riley can get warm and recover. That means dealing with at least one of those things. 

#### RILEY

_(shivering worryingly)_ Hey now, don't worry about me. 

#### ZACK

So, when you bust that pipe open, the doors to this little storage area will seal. 

#### MIRA

Keeping the creature in here while the liquid hydrogen sprays out. 

#### ZACK

So I, as bait, will have to be pretty quick getting through the door myself. 

#### MIRA

Who said you were the bait? 

#### ZACK

You're going to need to be working on the pressure. 

#### RILEY

C-can I help at all? 

#### ZACK

Just try and save your strength, for now. 

#### RILEY

Okay.

##### [Beat]

#### MIRA

Zack, how the hell are you dealing with this so well? 

#### ZACK

What do you mean? 

#### MIRA

You sound happier than I've heard you since you woke up. 

#### RILEY

You do sound kind of... chipper. 

#### MIRA

You like being chased by twisted aliens? 

#### ZACK

No. But you're right, I think I do prefer it to living with the worry that we're the last living things in the universe. 

#### MIRA

What? 

#### ZACK

These creatures. There's a bunch of them, they seem to have some semblance of intelligence and, unless the station's person-growing process has gone really really wrong, they came from somewhere else. 

#### MIRA

I guess. 

#### ZACK

Which means we're not alone! There are other things living out there. The universe is still alive! 

#### RILEY

And currently trying to eat us. 

#### ZACK

Sure. And I'd rather it wasn't, but still.

##### [Mira exhales in disbelief]

#### ZACK

Hey, you asked. What, you take no comfort at all in the knowledge we're not the last five living beings at the end of the universe? 

#### MIRA

I haven't really had time to think about it. 

#### RILEY

I just don't want to be eaten. Or cold anymore. 

#### MIRA

Well, then, you'll be happy to hear that I think we're just about ready. 

------

<!-- #### 5. INT. THE OTHER SIDE OF THE GENERATOR ROOM. -->

<!-- Luna is slowly making her way through one of the entrances. She's nervous, and trying to keep quiet, but is clumsier than she wants to be.  -->

##### [Slow, muffled, clumsy footsteps]

#### LUNA

_(whispering to herself)_ Come on. You promised Levi. You promised.

<!-- She moves forward slightly further, and catches her breath as one of the whistlers beings to move, coming closer. -->

##### [Another step]

##### [The now-familiar sound of cracking limbs]

##### [Luna inhales sharply]

#### LUNA

Oh no.

##### [The clicking and popping noises approach, accompanied by a low and mocking whistle]

##### [A door slams in the distance]

##### [Another whistle, high and drawn out in alarm]

##### [The clicking and popping immediately starts up again, but now growing more distant as the creature moves away]

<!-- It approaches, clicking and popping and letting out a low, mocking whistle as it gets closer. Just before it reaches her, there is the sound of door slamming from the other side of the room, and another whistle, this one high, loud and drawn out. It's a new tone, one of panic and alarm. The whistler turns immediately and starts to move quickly to the source of the sound.  -->

#### LUNA

What? Where's it going?

##### [Over her words, the sounds of hurried footsteps approaching]

#### MIRA

Come on, Riley. It's alright, it --

#### ZACK

Luna! 

#### LUNA

Oh thank god! We thought you might be --

#### MIRA

We're okay, but come on, we've got to go! 

#### LUNA

What's happened? Where did it go? 

#### ZACK

We managed to get one of them trapped. 

#### RILEY

Froze the bastard! 

#### MIRA

Not sure if we actually managed to hurt it, but all the others came running. 

#### LUNA

_(to herself)_ They're worried about it. They want to help. 

#### MIRA

I don't know. Maybe. All I know is we have to go, we might not get another chance to get out of here. 

#### LUNA

Right. 

#### ZACK

Where's Levi? 

#### LUNA

He's trying to make one of the wake-up rooms safe. I'll show you. 

#### ZACK

Great. Can you help with Riley? 

#### RILEY

I'm fine, it's just shock. 

#### ZACK

We need to get him warmed up. 

#### LUNA

Sure, I'll take you to Levi and we'll go from there.

##### [A distant chorus of whistles]

##### [Beat]

#### MIRA

Luna? Luna!

#### LUNA

_(coming back to herself)_ Hm? Yeah. Yeah, this way.

##### [Footsteps as they depart]

------

<!-- #### 6. INT. THE NOW-FORTIFIED AWAKENING ROOM -->

##### [A satisfying *clunk* as a lock engages]

#### MIRA

There, that should do it. 

#### LEVI

Thanks. Couldn't quite figure out the mechanism. 

#### MIRA

You've done a pretty good job with this place otherwise. And the door should be secure now, unless they're a lot smarter than we give them credit for. 

#### LUNA

They might be. 

#### ZACK

I've seen nothing to indicate that they're not mostly animalistic in their behaviour. 

#### LUNA

The way they went to help their trapped friend... 

#### MIRA

"Friend"? Let's try not to give too much credit to the things that want to eat us. 

#### ZACK

Animals can display all sorts of pack tactics or social dynamics, Luna. That doesn't mean they're people.

##### [A little ways off, there's a buzzing sound.] 

#### RILEY

_(distant)_ Ah-ha!

#### LEVI

_(calling)_ You get it working?

##### [Footsteps as they walk over]

##### [The buzzing sound continues, evocative of a fireplace]

#### LUNA

I thought the heating in here was broken? 

#### RILEY

It was, but I got one of the heating elements out and with a bit of jury-rigged wiring, well... 

#### MIRA

Should stop us freezing, at least. 

#### ZACK

And no fire this time. 

#### LEVI

Though it maybe wasn't the safest idea.

##### [They sit down around the heat source]

##### [Some crinkling noises as Zack pulls out food and tosses it to the others]

#### ZACK

Here. Eat up. Had to drop the bag, but I kept a few on me just in case. Enough for a day or two, hopefully. 

#### LEVI

So what do we do? Just hunker down here for awhile? 

#### RILEY

It's a pretty decent spot for it. 

#### MIRA

No. We rest and keep moving. It's a defensible position, but we're still in enemy territory. 

#### LUNA

Enemy territory? Now who's treating them like people?

#### MIRA

The plan is unchanged. We reach the bridge, find the Commander. 

#### LEVI

And wake up all the others.

##### [Beat]

#### RILEY

*Seriously?* 

#### MIRA

You see a problem with that plan? 

#### RILEY

Uh, yeah. Look, I know I'm struggling with all this, and you don't take me seriously --

#### MIRA

You have had a difficult time handling things, Riley. 

#### RILEY

Because I seem to be the only one who's not living in some sort of fantasy world! Look, I want to find the Commander as much as you do. Obviously, I've been made so I can't not want to. But look around. If the Commander ever actually woke up, they're either long gone or long dead or both. And as for reviving the others, that system clearly isn't operating properly any more! Face it, the five of us woke up by accident. And I kind of wish we hadn't.

##### [Silence as everyone considers this]

#### RILEY

If this station ever did what it was designed to, then we missed it. 

#### LEVI

I can't accept that we're the only ones. 

#### ZACK

You may have to, Levi. I think... I agree with Riley. 

#### LUNA

Mm.

##### [More silence]

#### MIRA

That doesn't actually change anything. 

#### LEVI

What do you mean? 

#### MIRA

Practically speaking. Commander or no Commander, even if we're the only ones, it still makes most sense to try and make our way to the bridge. 

#### ZACK

And if the bridge is full of those creatures? 

#### MIRA

Then we'll know. Right now our biggest obstacle is ignorance. Everything we've been saying, right now it's just guesswork. We can't make a proper plan without any actual information, and if we can find that anywhere, it'll be on the bridge. Plus, we need to get out of enemy terr-- the hunting grounds of these things, and towards the command deck is as good a direction as any. 

#### ZACK

We don't even know we're going the right direction. 

#### MIRA

We're going up. That feels like the right direction, at least until we find a map. 

#### LUNA

Are we sure these creatures are attacking us as a food source? Is there some other reason they might be hostile? 

#### LEVI

Well, I'm not all that keen on finding out either way. 

#### RILEY

You think they're the reason the station is broken? Did they damage it while we were asleep? 

#### LUNA

Maybe. Maybe the builders just stopped maintaining it at some point. It's all very well having a millennia-long project, but... 

#### ZACK

It only takes one generation to forget. 

#### LEVI

You think there are still people out there? In the universe, beyond the station?

#### MIRA

I think we need to get some rest. Someone needs to watch the door, in case they try to get in. We should take shifts. Any volunteers for first? 

#### LUNA

I'll take it. Don't really feel tired anyway. 

#### MIRA

Okay. Wake us if there's any trouble. 

#### LUNA

Of course. 

------

<!-- #### 7. THE FORTIFIED AWAKENING ROOM -->

##### [Peaceful, even breaths, along with gentle snoring]

##### [Quiet footsteps across the room, then a depressurising hiss as a door opens]

##### [A distant whistling. The footsteps pause.]

##### [Luna sighs, then inhales, and decisively steps across the threshold]

##### [The door shuts with a hiss and a louder *thud*]

<!-- There is the sound of the other four sleeping quietly (Levi is gently snoring) as Luna makes her way to the door and opens it. She pauses, as a distant whistling is heard. Luna sighs, steels herself and steps through. The door closes behind her with a hiss and a thud that disturbs Riley, who begins to rouse themself from sleep.  -->

#### RILEY

_(groggy)_ Hm? Wha-- Everything alright?

##### [There is no response.] 

#### RILEY

Luna?

##### [Rustling as Riley gets up]

#### RILEY

_(calling)_ Luna? 

#### ZACK

_(awakening)_ Riley? What's wrong? 

#### RILEY

It's Luna, she's gone. 

#### ZACK

What? What do you mean, she's gone? 

#### RILEY

I mean she's not here. She left the room. Mira! Levi!

##### [Rustling as the others start to wake]

#### ZACK

Or she was taken. 

#### LEVI

What's happening? Who's been taken? 

#### RILEY

Luna's gone. 

#### MIRA

Shit! What happened? 

#### ZACK

We don't know. She's gone. 

#### MIRA

_(panicked)_ Did any of you hear anything? Any whistling? 

#### LEVI

Doesn't look like they broke in. 

#### MIRA

We've got to go after her. 

#### RILEY

She wouldn't have left willingly, would she?

##### [Beat]

#### MIRA

Come on. 

------

<!-- #### 8. INT. A CORRIDOR, DEEP IN WHISTLER TERRITORY -->

##### [The characteristic hum of the station echoes through a corridor]

##### [It sounds more obviously broken, clogged up]

##### [Slow, nervous footsteps]

<!-- Like everywhere else, the corridor here thrums with the same distant sound of machinery, but it sounds more obviously broken here, clogged with assorted alien goops. Luna makes her way slowly, nervously.  -->

#### LUNA

This is a bad idea.

##### [There is a *ssquelch* as she steps on a patch of alien resin.]

##### [She makes a noise of disgust.]

#### LUNA

I can still go back. I should go back.

##### [Beat]

#### LUNA

No. They're not just animals. I know they're not.

##### [An ominous whistling, further down the corridor]

#### LUNA

_(Quietly)_ H-Hello?

##### [No response]

#### LUNA

We can't go on like this. We just can't.

##### [She steels herself:]

#### LUNA

_(louder)_ Hello! 

##### [There is a whistle from up ahead, as though in answer]

##### [Luna's breathing speeds up in fear]

##### [The noise of clicking, insect-like limbs]

#### LUNA

Hello. Hello to you. T-to both of you.

##### [Another whistle, with a tone of almost curiosity]

#### LUNA

I'm not here to hurt you.

##### [More limb clicking, closer now: one of them has approached]

#### LUNA

Luna. My name is Luna.

##### [The further one lets out a long, low whistle, which the other harmonises with]

##### [The tones shift and merge, as though conversing]

#### LUNA

I knew it. You do talk to each other. You're not just monsters. You --

##### [A cracking sound -- but not a limb this time.]

#### LUNA

What is that? Oh my god, is that your mou--AAAHH!

##### [The creature lunges.]