---
layout:          post
title:           "OTCW004 - The Hand That Fed"
date:            2023-12-15 12:00:00 -0400
episode_type:      episode
categories:			"neon"
podcasts: ["neon"]
neon_category:   ["otcw"]
title_prefix:	"OTCW"
prev_categories: ["neon"]
prev_prefixes: ["OTCW"]
prev_episode:   ['003']
prev_episode_num:		['003']
prev_episode_title:		["Half Sunk"]
next_categories: ["neon"]
next_prefixes: ["OTCW"]
next_episode:   ['005']
next_episode_num:		['005']
next_episode_title:		["A Shattered Visage"]
episode_title:   "The Hand That Fed"
episode_number:  '004'
summary:         "Luna discovers the consequence of her curiosity. The crew find leftovers."
content_flags:   ["Isolation", "Existential Loneliness", "Mentions of: Blood", "Discussions of: Post-apocalypse, human extinction", "SFX: ominous whistling"]
acast_url:       https://shows.acast.com/neon-inkwell/episodes/neon-inkwell-of-that-colossal-wreck-4
official:        false
unofficial:      https://ghostwires.github.io/transcripts
unofficial_name: ghostwires
wiki_url:        
---

##### [SOUNDS OF VOICES FROM VERY FAR AWAY, PANICKED, SEARCHING FOR SOMEONE]

#### LEVI

Anyone found anything?

#### ZACK

Nothing yet.

#### MIRA

She might be nowhere near here.

#### RILEY

Maybe we should split up, cover more ground --

##### [LUNA SITS UP, GROANING IN PAIN]

#### LUNA

Mira?

#### MIRA

_(still very distant)_ Luna?

_(to the others)_ I hear something!

#### LUNA

Mira! I'm here.

##### [POUNDING FOOTSTEPS, APPROACHING QUICKLY]

#### MIRA

Luna! Oh my god, you're alive. _(calling)_ I found her!

#### LUNA

Quiet, they might be close. I think I managed to burst a... steampipe or something? Scared them off, but I don't -- _(breaks off in pain)_ know --

#### MIRA

It's okay. It's okay, it's alright.

##### [SOUNDS OF THE OTHERS APPROACHING]

We'll get you somewhere safe. You're gonna be okay.

#### ZACK

Your leg. Can I take a look?

#### LUNA

Sure. It was my own fault. I shouldn't have --

#### RILEY

Luna! You're okay.

#### LUNA

_(acerbic at herself)_ We'll have to wait and see about that.

#### ZACK

I need some proper bandages. This should stop the bleeding for now, but it won't last long.

#### MIRA

What happened?

#### LUNA

It *bit* me! One of those things -- I was running away but it got my leg -- they were *on* me and I couldn't...

I managed to reach this bar.  Swung it at them, it went wide, this pipe -- there was a bunch of steam and then --

#### LEVI

It's alright, Luna. It's over now.

That's the bar you found?

#### LUNA

Yep.

#### LEVI

You can put it down now.

#### LUNA

I don't *want* to.

#### LEVI

Let it go, Luna. You're safe. It's over.

##### [A PAUSE, THEN THE SOUND OF SOMETHING METAL DROPPING TO THE FLOOR]

#### MIRA

_(quiet)_ We should get moving.

##### [CLOTH RUSTLES AS LUNA GETS UP]

#### MIRA

I'm glad you're okay.

#### LUNA

Thanks.

#### RILEY

Me too.

------

##### [SOMETHING RATTLES AROUND IN THE BACKGROUND]

#### MIRA

Haven't seen any sign of those creatures for a while.

#### LEVI

Yes, one or two. I think we might be out of their territory.

#### MIRA

Then we need to think about finding more food.

#### LEVI

Ooh, I had an idea about that. Have you noticed these terminals _(in the walls?)_ around here? What if we can get one to work? I bet between you, you and Riley could fix one up with a bit of time. Then, we might be able to find a plan of the station.

Who knows how big this place is? There could be loads more awakening rooms!

#### MIRA

Levi, we're not going to find anyone else. It's just us.

#### LEVI

I was just thinking about finding some more food.

##### [MIRA SIGHS. A BEAT]

#### MIRA

Either way, it's a good plan.

#### LEVI

Thanks.

_(calling)_ How're you doing back there, Luna?

#### LUNA

I'm alright.

#### MIRA

No you're not. Zack?

#### ZACK

Yep, I'm here. Luna, can I take another look?

#### LUNA

Sure.

#### LEVI

Riley, while we're stopped, do you reckon you can build up one of these terminals? If we can get one working, maybe we can access the station plans or something like that. Some kind of useful information, anyway.

#### RILEY

Well, it's worth a go. As long as it's still connected to the power, but I don't see why they wouldn't be.

_(lets out an assessing breath)_ Yeah. Yeah, I think I might manage it.

#### ZACK

How does this feel?

##### [SOUND OF CLOTH SHIFTING]

#### LUNA

Ah! *Not* good!

#### ZACK

Bad news, I'm afraid. That looks like it might be infected.

#### MIRA

Already?

#### LEVI

Could those things have some kind of venom?

#### ZACK

I'm not sure. It doesn't look like a snake bite or anything like that.

#### MIRA

Well, whatever they are, they're not snakes.

#### ZACK

I guess not.

Either way, I should be able to treat it, but not without some sort of -- clinic or some equipment at least.

#### LUNA

_(sarcastically)_ Has anyone seen a hospital around here?

#### RILEY

Actually, if you give me a second...

##### [A SCI-FI *NYOOM* OF SOMETHING COMING TO LIFE]

#### RILEY

Aha! Yes, we might be able to find something.

#### LEVI

Good job!

#### ZACK

Is it working?

#### RILEY

Well, it's on. Don't get too excited yet, this might take a while...

##### [BOOPING NOISES AS RILEY WORKS THROUGH THE TERMINAL]

##### [FADE INTO TRANSITIONAL MUSIC]

------

##### [A DOOR CLOSES]

##### [CLOTH SHIFTING, SOMEONE GRUNTS]

##### [LUNA GASPS IN PAIN]

#### MIRA

_(panicked)_ Sorry! Did it hurt you?

#### LUNA

No! It's fine. It kind of just hurts to move or -- touch anything.

#### MIRA

That doesn't sound fine.

#### ZACK

Looks like this place was close as it was. Now, let's give the wound some proper examination. There must be some scissors or scalpel in here somewhere.

##### [A clink of something metal being set down]

#### MIRA

Here.

#### ZACK

Thanks! Okay, Luna? I'm going to have to remove the rest of this fabric around the wound, okay? It might -- pool a bit, so let me know if you need a break.

##### [FABRIC RIPPING NOISES]

Mira, do you think you could find some saline solution anywhere?

#### MIRA

On it.

##### [Departing, no-nonsense footsteps, as Mira sighs slightly]

##### [Luna breathes tensely]

##### [She lets out a short, pained scream-gasp]

#### ZACK

_(involuntarily)_ Oh god!

#### LUNA

What is it? Is it bad?

Let me look.

##### [Fabric shifts as Luna tries to get up]

#### ZACK

Er -- so --

#### LUNA

_(strained)_ Never mind; I can smell it.

#### MIRA

I think I found the saline solution. Is this the right stuff?

#### ZACK

That's it, thanks, Mira. I'll need some fresh bandages and some cetrimide, too. I think there's a storeroom back there.

#### MIRA

Right.

##### [She departs again]

#### LUNA

What's cetrimide for?

#### ZACK

It has two functions. One, it's quite an effective antiseptic. Two, it gives Mira a job to do.

##### [They both laugh quietly]

#### ZACK

_(quieter)_ This isn't right. The infection's progressing a lot quicker than it should be.

Luna... I'm so sorry, but it's spreading really quickly, and we -- we can't risk --

#### LUNA

I need to lose it, don't I.

##### [A pause]

#### ZACK

I'm really sorry.

#### LUNA

I understand.

#### ZACK

_(steels himself)_ Okay. Let's get you prepped. Find something to numb your leg; with any luck there's a working surgical laser right here --

#### LUNA

*Numb?* I'm going to be *awake?*

#### ZACK

I'm sorry, but none of the others have medical experience. I can't both put you under and operate you by myself. A local anesthetic might be the best we can do, and that can only go so far.

##### [Luna inhales]

##### [Quiet, solemn music comes in]

#### LUNA

...Okay.

#### ZACK

Do you want me to get Mira back?

#### LUNA

Maybe.

...Yes. Please.

#### ZACK

Right. One second. _(half a joke:)_ Don't go anywhere, okay?

##### [Luna laughs at that]

#### LUNA

Okay. But... Zack? Don't take too long. I'd *really* rather get this over with.

------

##### [Sounds of metal crashing against metal]

##### [Footsteps]

##### [A door swings open]

#### LEVI

This is *amazing!* Riley, check out the size of this pan! There's an __*actual pan!*__

#### RILEY

Yeah, that's, erm, great.

#### LEVI

Maybe I'll try cooking up some of those food packs!

#### RILEY

_(distracted)_ Yeah, sounds -- delicious.

This... this place is lived in. It's not like the rest of the station. It feels like it's been used by actual people. So -- so where did they go?

#### LEVI

I mean... maybe those whistling things got them?

#### RILEY

I don't think so. We haven't heard them since we got here, there's none of that resin stuff, and it's much warmer than anywhere else we've been.

#### LEVI

Then perhaps they moved on. I mean, this place is nicer than anywhere else we've found, but... it's not exactly what I'd look for if I were trying to rebuild civilization.

#### RILEY

Maybe.

##### [A door squeaks open]

#### RILEY

Levi? Come look at this.

##### [Footsteps]

#### LEVI

*Wow.*

_(struggling for words)_ My god, I -- h-h-how many acres do you think this is?

#### RILEY

Er... some? I don't really know acres, I'm not a farmer.

##### [Slow footsteps]

Hold on, where're you going?

#### LEVI

Just having a look around. Think about it. We've -- never *seen* plants before!

#### RILEY

We've seen plants. Well, I -- I remember seeing plants.

#### LEVI

Right. But these eyes? *These* eyes are seeing them for the first time.

Whoa -- _(voice pitching up in excitement)_ I -- *apples!*

##### [He snaps one off a branch and takes a bite]

Oh. _(chewing)_ Not very ripe ones, but still!

##### [Another branch is snapped; a bite]

#### RILEY

Oh. _(spitting it out:)_ Pteh. I hate apples. I forgot. Or -- didn't know.

##### [They laugh together]

Actually, this is pretty cool.

#### MIRA

Hey. What's all this?

#### RILEY

Mira! The best I can figure, that hydroponics bay we saw on the map must have -- spread, somehow.

#### LEVI

How's Luna doing?

#### MIRA

Not good. Zack's had to amputate her leg.

##### [The others react]

#### RILEY

Shit!

#### MIRA

It was... difficult. He thinks he got all the venom or infection -- whatever it was. She's taking something to help her sleep now. Zack's watching her.

#### LEVI

How's she handling it?

#### MIRA

Okay, actually. I think she was just in enough pain, she wanted it over with.

#### RILEY

So now what?

#### MIRA

We've found a working fabricator in the medical bay. He thinks he'll be able to make her a prosthetic, but not til she's healed a bit. We'll have to stay put for a while.

##### [Some footsteps]

You said this was from the hydroponics bay?

#### LEVI

I don't really know. It's cultivated, though. Like a real farm.

#### RILEY

We think there might have been people living here at some point.

#### MIRA

The medical bay's been used too. Some of the supplies have been depleted, and others seem to be hand-made.

#### RILEY

Half the furniture here is repurposed, or built from other bits of the station. But people *definitely* lived here. At least long enough to clear out massive room like this, and grow some apples, and -- _(inhales)_ hopefully some other fruits as well.

#### MIRA

Well -- it's a good find. Luna can rest, and we can take plenty of supplies when we're ready to leave.

##### [Beat]

#### RILEY

Wait, where's Levi got to?

_(calling)_ Hey, you found something good?

##### [Footsteps as they walk over]

#### LEVI

I thought it was a flower garden or something.

##### [Quiet, solemn music]

#### RILEY

Who buried them?

#### MIRA

There must be... a hundred at least.

#### LEVI

It's incredible. People were really here! They had *lives,* a community... They built a *graveyard!*

#### MIRA

I don't think that's as positive as you make it out to be.

#### LEVI

Of *course* it's positive! Look. These ones here are much older than those ones. There must have been *multiple generations!* They would have had children -- g-*grandchildren,* even!

#### MIRA

Or some of them woke up later than others. Maybe there were different groups. Like us.

#### LEVI

Who each found their way here. Just like us.

##### [Beat]

#### MIRA

We missed them.

------

##### [Slow, steady breathing]

##### [Luna gasps in pain, then exhales]

#### ZACK

Luna. Do you need another painkiller?

#### LUNA

Mhm.

#### ZACK

Right. _(exhales)_ Give me a minute.

Here you go.

This should kick in soon.

#### LUNA

Thank you. Sorry to wake you.

#### ZACK

_(yawning)_ Don't worry about that. It's what I'm here for.

I'm just going to check your leg again, okay?

#### LUNA

Yeah.

##### [Fabric shifts, Luna inhales in pain]

#### LUNA

It *really* hurts, like -- *all* the way down. Even though it's gone.

#### ZACK

That's very common, at least at first. There are some therapies we can try once you're a bit more recovered. It's looking good for now. It's healing well. And I can't see any further signs of infection.

#### LUNA

Well -- that's a relief.

#### ZACK

You should try and get some sleep if you can.

#### LUNA

I will.

Zack?

Thank you.

#### ZACK

You're welcome. I'm... I'm just sorry we couldn't save your leg.

#### LUNA

You saved *me.* That's way more important.

#### ZACK

I know.

#### LUNA

_(lighter:)_ Just be sure to make me a *cool* prosthesis, okay? I hate that green goopy stuff that doctors use in fabricators.

#### ZACK

_(amused)_ I'm afraid I don't think I'll be able to change the *color* of the goop.

#### LUNA

I'm sure you'll think of something.

------

##### [Crunching noises]

#### RILEY

Hey, Luna. What about this one here?

#### LUNA

Lentils. See those yellow pods at the bottom? If they rattle, they're ready.

#### RILEY

And you just -- *know* this stuff about all these plants?

#### LUNA

Do you just *know* stuff about all the terminals?

#### RILEY

I guess so. This seems way more complicated, though.

#### LUNA

It's simple enough when you grasp the basics. Although I still haven't quite figured out the irrigation system. Somehow they managed to get a water recycling system and a stable cycle that keeps the roots fed.

##### [Someone makes a noise of pain]

#### RILEY

*Ouch!*

#### LUNA

Careful. It's pretty overgrown.

#### ZACK

How did the plants last so long with no one taking care of them?

#### LUNA

Same way they manage in the wild. See, there. Look closely. Can you see the beetle? And this leaf's been chewed. Probably by a caterpillar.

#### MIRA

So the bugs managed to wake up on schedule, but the humans didn't?

#### LUNA

Maybe. Given the shape of the *rest* of this station, I think it's just as likely no one ever thought of bringing pollinators, and a few eggs just snuck in with the seeds.

#### LEVI

Well, lucky for us. Is this enough peas, do you think?

#### LUNA

Plenty. We can always dry any extras.

##### [A thump, then Luna audibly winces]

Oh -- could somebody hand me my cane?

#### ZACK

Here you go.

#### LUNA

Thanks. I keep forgetting.

#### ZACK

You're good there.

#### MIRA

When we get back on the move, we should double up watches. Make sure none of us gets surprised by these things again.

#### LEVI

We haven't decided when we're going back on the move yet.

#### LUNA

Hey, I, uh --

I need to tell you all something.

#### MIRA

We can't stay here forever.

#### LUNA

Listen, I should have said before, but --

I... I wasn't surprised by that. Thing. When it bit me.

...I went looking for them.

#### MIRA

Why the *fuck* would you do that?

#### LUNA

They're intelligent. I thought, maybe I could communicate with them! I know it was stupid, but I --

#### MIRA

_(cutting in)_ *Damn right* it was stupid. You wanted to talk to the monsters trying to eat us? What did you think, that you'd just have a nice conversation if you said please?

#### LEVI

Mira, that's not fair.

#### MIRA

Do you know how lucky you are to still be alive? Do you know how lucky it is that -- *any* of us is still alive!? We went looking for you. You could have led them right to us.

#### LEVI

Mira, that's enough!

#### RILEY

Well, she's got a point.

#### LEVI

But we are all still alive. And there's no reason to make Luna feel worse than she obviously already does.

#### LUNA

It's okay, Levi, really.

#### LEVI

We've gotta stick together. We can't afford to be at each other's throats.

#### ZACK

In Luna's defense, the creatures do demonstrate clear communication between themselves, so...

#### MIRA

Not now, Zack.

#### LEVI

Anyway... lesson learned.

#### LUNA

Yeah. Lesson learned.

------

##### [Slow, clunking footsteps]

#### LEVI

Hey, look at you!

#### ZACK

How's it feel?

#### LUNA

Yeah, alright! Still a bit wobbly, and I *hate* the color. But I'm getting used to it.

#### ZACK

It'll take a bit of time, but you're doing well so far. Don't forget to use the cane if you need it either.

#### LUNA

_(dryly)_ Thanks, Zack.

#### ZACK

It's no problem. Just don't go trying to befriend any terrifying monsters!

##### [He tries to laugh. No one else does.]

##### [Luna sighs awkwardly.]

#### ZACK

Sorry. That wasn't --

#### LUNA

No, it's okay.

#### RILEY

*Anyway,* Levi and I were just about to start making dinner! You up to helping?

#### LUNA

I think so. Did you manage to get up any more of those carrots?

#### LEVI

Oh, a few. We found even more mushrooms, though. Thought we'd do a sort of veggie-bean stew.

#### LUNA

Sounds great.

#### ZACK

Where's Mira?

#### RILEY

Still poring over those plans. Here, do you mind chopping these?

##### [Luna hums in affirmation]

#### LEVI

She's *really* serious about finding the bridge. Or -- wherever the Commander is, anyway.

##### [A door slides open in the background]

#### ZACK

Hasn't she already got the whole station memorised? It's not like the maps we've found are particularly detailed.

##### [Approaching footsteps]

#### LEVI

Well yeah, that's what I said to her, but... you know.

#### MIRA

I assume you're talking about me?

#### ZACK

Er -- yeah, but not in a bad way --

#### MIRA

Calm down, it's fine.

#### LUNA

Find anything new?

#### MIRA

No. Like you said, it's not a very detailed map.

#### ZACK

It pointed us here, at least.

#### MIRA

True enough. I just want to internalise it as much as possible. So we at least know which direction we're going when we move on.

#### LEVI

*If* we move on.

#### MIRA

If we move on. Fine.

##### [Beat]

I still don't see why we wouldn't.

#### LEVI

You really can't think of a reason to stay here? The fields of growing food, the medical equipment? The *beds?*

#### ZACK

You've got to admit, Mira, we could be doing a lot worse.

#### MIRA

Am I the only one who doesn't think that's enough?

#### RILEY

For what it's worth, I agree with Mira. It's been *really* good to stay put and know what I'm supposed to be doing every day, but -- I think we need to know what all our options are, and we're only going to find that out if we keep looking. I don't think this is a life I'd choose.

#### ZACK

Is it our choice, though? How many of our instincts are just -- implanted? Mira. Would you want to find out what happened to the Commander so badly if someone else hadn't decided that should be your... *purpose,* or primary motivator or whatever you call it!

#### MIRA

Then your desire to stay here and play hospital is entirely natural. Is that it?

#### LEVI

Look, we're not going to solve the problem of free will, okay? Let's just accept that everyone wants what they want. Mira, I, I see your point about getting more information. But it's a big risk. We don't know what shape the rest of the station is in. There might be more of those creatures. Or worse.

#### RILEY

Are we sure that we're safe here, though? They *are* still out there; they could still find us...

#### LEVI

Luna, what do you think?

#### LUNA

I think... _(inhales)_ I think we should move on.

#### ZACK

Luna. Think about it. We've got so much here. Your prosthesis will last for, what, five years? If we leave, what are the chances we'll find somewhere we can replace it?

#### LUNA

Well, if I need a new leg, I can figure that out when the time comes. It's not enough to stay here waiting for... well, nothing.

#### LEVI

I'm not suggesting we just sit here and wait. I'm talking about building a community, like the others did. Growing things.

#### LUNA

I do want to *grow* something, Levi, it's just --

Everything here feels... temporary. This place was a home, once. But it's not ours. And I want to see what else is out there.

#### LEVI

_(resigned)_ Okay. Three against two, then. As soon as Luna's ready, we'll start heading for the bridge.

------

##### [Footsteps]

#### MIRA

We'll need to find somewhere defensible to rest soon.

#### RILEY

This corridor has had maintenance rooms every few minutes. Bit cramped, but... only one door to watch.

#### MIRA

Good work. Next one we come across, we'll take a break.

#### LEVI

How many days did you say it would take to reach the Commander's center?

#### MIRA

At this pace? If I'm right about the scale of the map we found... three, maybe four?

#### ZACK

How's the leg holding up, Luna?

#### LUNA

It's good. Doesn't feel exactly normal yet, but it's not painful. I'm fine.

##### [Metal rattling somewhere far off]

I'd rather not have to run, though.

##### [Silence]

##### [Another rattle]

##### [The footsteps have stopped]

#### RILEY

_(breaking the silence)_ Maybe it was just, you know. Station noises.

#### ZACK

"Station noises"?

#### RILEY

Yeah, like, er, a pipe problem or something?

#### LEVI

Hey, maybe we can call a plumber.

##### [Another metal rattling sound]

#### MIRA

We should move.

#### LUNA

Wait--!

#### MIRA

Levi, help me with Luna.

#### LUNA

I'm alright, I think I've got --

##### [The metal rattling is much closer now, surrounding them]

Agh! What the --

#### MIRA

Shit.

##### [Metal thrums as she strains to pull on something]

It's shut tight!

#### LEVI

Okay, let's not panic.

#### MIRA

You sure about that?

#### ZACK

He's right. These doors look airtight. Remember, keeping calm preserves oxygen.

#### MIRA

_(sarcastically)_ Oh, noted. Thanks, Zack, that's really reassuring.

##### [A hissing noise has started over Mira's words]

#### LUNA

It can't be airtight. Do you hear that?

#### LEVI

That's the air. There must be a crack somewhere, look around.

##### [The hissing continues; they start coughing]

#### MIRA

_(strained)_ I think I've found something.

#### LUNA

That's -- that's not air--!

##### [The coughing is getting worse]

#### RILEY

Gas!

#### ZACK

It's chlorine. I can't breathe--!

##### [More metal rattling, banging]

#### RILEY

Got it!

##### [The rattling and hissing stop abruptly]

##### [Everyone coughs in the newfound silence]

#### RILEY

_(still hoarse)_ Well --

##### [Footsteps]

##### [A long silence]

#### A NEW VOICE

Fuck me. You're *people!*

#### MIRA

Who the hell are you!?

#### VOICE

I'm Anya. I live here. Who the hell are *you?*