---
layout:          post
title:           "MAGP 000.1 - Trailer"
date:            2023-10-11 16:00:00 # in UTC = GMT = London time
episode_type:      episode
tags:            []
voiced:          []
categories:			"tmagp"
podcasts: ["tmagp"]
title_prefix:	"MAGP"
next_categories: ["tmagp"]
next_prefixes: ["MAGP"]
next_episode:	['001']
next_episode_num:		['001']
next_episode_title:		["First Shift"]
episode_title:   'Trailer'
episode_number:  '001'
summary:         "The Magnus Protocol - Coming January 2024"
content_flags:   []
acast_url:       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zN-2bTAYrlg
formats:
official:        false
unofficial_name: Dr. Teatime
notes:           ""
---

##### [INTRO MUSIC]

##### [COMPUTER STARTUP NOISES]

##### [SOUNDS OF TYPING FOLLOWED BY A KNOCK ON THE DOOR]

#### LENA

Ah. _(calling)_ Come in.

#### SAM

Uh, hi. Sorry, I hope I'm not too early, the email said 9:00 p.m. but I --

#### LENA

That's quite all right, please take a seat.

##### [He sits]

Samama, isn't it?

#### SAM

Uh -- Sam is fine!

#### LENA 

Very good. Thank you for coming in. Alice has spoken highly of you; you went to University together, I believe?

#### SAM

Oh, uh, yeah.

#### LENA

Well, you have a strong CV, decent cover letter, and you present well...

#### SAM

_(flattered)_ Oh, thank you!

#### LENA

...so you do not want this job.

##### [Beat]

#### SAM

Listen, if you think I'm overqualified, I --

#### LENA

It would be difficult not to be... but no, it's not that. To be more accurate, you shouldn't want this job. This kind of work, it isn't for everybody. 

#### SAM

...I'm not sure I understand. 

##### [Faint strains of music come in]

#### LENA

You are clearly a bright, sociable, and ambitious young man who works hard. 

#### SAM

So...?

#### LENA

So *I* have no use for you.

##### [Pause.]

#### SAM

Please. _(desperate)_ Look, I-I *need* this.

#### LENA

...

The hours are punishing and the work is both monotonous and unpleasant. You will have few social interactions, and depression is -- highly likely.

#### SAM

Not a problem.

#### LENA

Hm.

In that case, I have an aptitude question for you.

_(slowly, almost whispering:)_ What is the worst thing you've ever seen?

##### [A soft glitch of static, starting to rise]

#### SAM

I'm sorry?

#### LENA

You've seen a friend or relative die, perhaps? An accident? Maybe some kind of violent crime?

##### [Sam does not answer.]

Something stranger, then. Maybe something you've never been able to explain and no one would ever believe. Be honest now, Sam, or I can't offer you the job.

##### [Beat]

#### SAM

_(quiet)_ Yes.

#### LENA

Hm. _(back to business)_ Wonderful. Thank you for your time, Sam. We'll be in touch.

##### [Static cuts out]

##### [OUTRO MUSIC]