---
layout:          post
title:           "OTCW005 - A Shattered Visage"
date:            2023-12-22 12:00:00 -0400
episode_type:      episode
categories:			"neon"
podcasts: ["neon"]
neon_category:   ["otcw"]
title_prefix:	"OTCW"
prev_categories: ["neon"]
prev_prefixes: ["OTCW"]
prev_episode:   ['004']
prev_episode_num:		['004']
prev_episode_title:		["The Hand That Fed"]
episode_title:   "A Shattered Visage"
episode_number:  '005'
summary:         "The crew are taken captive. Is this new face a friend or foe?"
content_flags:   ["Isolation", "Imprisonment", "Interrogation", "Discussions of: death, extinction", "SFX: ominous whistling, gunshots (space)"]
acast_url:       https://shows.acast.com/neon-inkwell/episodes/neon-inkwell-of-that-colossal-wreck-5
official:        false
unofficial:      https://ghostwires.github.io/transcripts
unofficial_name: ghostwires
wiki_url:        
---

##### [We are in a small room. The clinking noises of metalworking echo.]

##### [No one speaks, until:]

#### RILEY

So... you gonna say anything, or...

#### ANYA

I'm working.

#### RILEY

It's just -- it's boiling in here.

#### ANYA

Keeps the whistlers away. They don't like the heat.

#### RILEY

Right.

##### [More metalworking noises]

What are you doing?

#### ANYA

You wasted a bunch of my gas. I've got to mix more.

#### RILEY

Okay.

I mean, I don't want to bother you, it's just -- I, I can't really do anything else, since you tied me to this chair.

#### ANYA

_(indifferently)_ Yeah, sorry.

#### RILEY

...Why have you taken us prisoner?

#### ANYA

No!

#### RILEY

No?

#### ANYA

You're not prisoners! It's dangerous, out there. Might get eaten. Might walk into traps!

#### RILEY

Your traps.

#### ANYA

_(audible shrug)_ Yeah.

#### RILEY

So you've... tied us up for our own protection?

#### ANYA

Yep.

#### RILEY

Like dogs?

#### ANYA

Yeah, that's it. Like dogs.

#### RILEY

Right. Erm, where are the others?

#### ANYA

Next door.

#### RILEY

_(softly)_ What?

#### ANYA

Oh don't worry, they can reach food and water. 

#### RILEY

Oh! Good.

#### ANYA

Yeah. It's a good place here. Lots of room next door for computer bits. This one's cleaning systems, so lots of chemicals. And there's a storage door through the surface hatch with food, guns... even some medicine. Only two routes in as well, so defensible. _(darker)_ But not a dead end.

#### RILEY

Oh. That is good, actually.

...Why am I not with them?

#### ANYA

Five people is a lot. I just want to talk to one for a while. Get used to it again.

#### RILEY

Get used to -- talking?

#### ANYA

Yeah.

There used to be more. I had more people.

Not for a long time, though. A long time.

#### RILEY

How long?

##### [Anya blows a breath]

#### ANYA

Well, from when I started counting, it was a thousand and eight sleeps until I got a computer working enough to track time. It had to start a count from zero, and got to six years, two months, three days.

Then it broke. And the next one I fixed went for 12 years, 11 months, and, er... three days again. And that one broke a while ago. Haven't fixed a new one yet.

#### RILEY

Wow. That is a... long time.

#### ANYA

Mmm. Don't really know what months, years, actually mean out here. Most of the memories they gave me are gone by now. Kind of remember Earth, but that's probably gone as well.

#### RILEY

What happened to the other people you woke up with?

#### ANYA

Whistlers. Killed them, one by one. Gave me this face, too, when I got careless. Haven't gotten careless since.

I'm slowing, though. Can't remember my own traps, now. Can't fight them like I used to.

#### RILEY

Right.

##### [More metalworking noises]

Anya, what's the --

#### ANYA

Quiet! This is a fiddly process to make very dangerous gas. Please don't distract me.

#### RILEY

Then untie me!

#### ANYA

No. You'll get yourself killed.

#### RILEY

Look, I'll -- I'll stay with you. We'll all stay with you, okay?

##### [Anya makes a deliberating noise.]

#### ANYA

Promise?

#### RILEY

Yeah.

#### ANYA

Okay.

##### [More metalworking noises]

#### RILEY

So... are you going to --

#### ANYA

When I'm done with the gas! Are all people this impatient? Did I just forget?

#### RILEY

They are when they're tied to a chair, Anya.

##### [Sounds of metal straining]

##### [Riley makes a sound of surprise]

##### [Something crashes]

##### [The metalworking noises stop]

#### ANYA

Now look what you've done.

##### [Riley sighs]

#### RILEY

_(morosely)_ Ow.

------

#### LEVI

God *damn,* it's hot in here. Did that old weirdo break the heating or something?

#### ZACK

I've got some water over here, I think. _(straining)_ I should *just* about be able to reach it.

#### LEVI

And that's another thing. Why tie us to chairs and leave one of our arms free?

#### LUNA

So we could eat? I don't see why she would lie about it.

#### LEVI

Can't we just use our free arms to untie the rest of us? Or -- Luna! Can you do something with your new leg to break the rope?

#### LUNA

Like what? I don't think Zack installed the circular saw attachment to it.

#### ZACK

Ah, I knew there was something I forgot.

#### MIRA

I don't know about you, but I can't reach these knots. Wouldn't help, anyway. The main door to the room looks welded shut, and the only other way out goes past her.

#### ZACK

What do you think she's going to do to us?

#### MIRA

At the moment I'm more worried about Riley. Luna, you're closest to the hatch. Can you hear them at all?

#### LUNA

Not really. _(a little puzzled)_ I think they're just -- chatting.

#### LEVI

I don't like it.

#### MIRA

Really. I thought you were desperate to find other people?

#### LEVI

This wasn't exactly what I had in mind.

##### [He exhales]

I'm sorry. But I -- I know it's not been easy for any of us, but -- all the memories I've been given, like big families, building communities... It's what I'm *for.* I don't know where I'd fit without other people. I don't know who I am.

#### ZACK

_(deliberately dry)_ Well, right now you're the prisoner of an old lady with quite possibly the only gun in the universe.

##### [That gets Levi to snort.]

#### MIRA

I wouldn't be so sure about that, Zack. That crate, over in the corner. That symbol on the side means it contains potentially lethal armaments. Probably guns.

#### LUNA

*What?* Why are there guns *here?*

#### MIRA

This looks like it was a storeroom for one of the recolonisation teams. Probably a few thousand of them on the station.

#### LUNA

_(disbelieving)_ And they thought that restarting human civilisation would require *guns?*

#### MIRA

There are a lot of potential scenarios where you might need a weapon.

#### ZACK

Like maybe your space station has been overrun with hungry aliens.

#### LUNA

Uh-uh, that's a different *thing.* These guns weren't put here to defend the station. They were put here to help us "recolonise." Who exactly did they think we were going to be shooting?

#### MIRA

That's an interesting theoretical, Luna, but right now I think the question is whether we can use these guns to shoot the woman currently holding us hostage.

#### LEVI

We're not shooting her.

#### MIRA

No?

#### LEVI

Well, not unless Riley starts screaming.

#### LUNA

I don't think she wants to hurt us.

#### ZACK

She nearly killed us with chlorine gas. Then -- _(rope strains demonstratively)_ -- she tied us up.

#### LEVI

I know, but -- we might be the first humans she's seen in decades. And did you see that scar on her face?

#### MIRA

Yeah. That wasn't a shaving scar.

#### LUNA

She's clearly had a bad time of it. This whole situation might be even weirder for her than it is for us!

#### MIRA

Mmm. Maybe.

##### [The hatch rattles open]

#### RILEY

_(calmly)_ Hey. How's everyone in here?

#### LUNA

Riley!

#### ZACK

You're okay!

#### MIRA

Has she hurt you?

##### [The hatch is closed]

#### RILEY

No. Anya's... well, she's... nice.

#### MIRA

"Nice"?

#### RILEY

She's just been alone a long time. A really long time.

#### ZACK

Is she going to untie us?

#### LEVI

And turn the heat down a little bit?

#### RILEY

Er, yes and -- no. The heat keeps the whistlers away, apparently.

#### LEVI

Oh. Well, that makes sense then, I guess.

#### RILEY

But I can untie you.

#### ZACK

Oh, great!

#### RILEY

She kind of thought she was protecting you? It's a whole thing. Look, she wants to talk to Mira alone.

#### MIRA

Me? Why?

#### LUNA

And why alone?

#### RILEY

Well, Anya's not really good with groups yet. She gets nervous.

#### MIRA

_(considering)_ Mmm. And why me?

#### LUNA

You don't have to go.

#### RILEY

Well, she asked to speak to our leader.

#### MIRA

_(surprised)_ Oh.

#### LEVI

Right. I see.

#### RILEY

And -- and I said that we didn't really *have* one, but that you were the one with the plan to reach the bridge.

#### LEVI

Okay, that makes sense. You better go talk to her, our glorious leader.

#### MIRA

I suppose I better.

##### [Zack strains the rope demonstratively again:]

#### ZACK

You do need to untie us first, though, Riley.

#### RILEY

Right! Yes! _(laughs slightly at themself)_ Okay, hold still.

------

##### [Slow footsteps]

#### MIRA

Anya, right?

#### ANYA

Right.

##### [Something is cocked]

#### MIRA

You want to put the gun down?

#### ANYA

No, thank you.

#### MIRA

I'm not gonna attack you.

#### ANYA

I know. Because I have a gun.

##### [Mira sighs]

#### MIRA

No, because -- look, you know you left us in a room with a bunch of other guns, right?

#### ANYA

_(remembering)_ Oh, yeah. Yeah, I did. So... why don't you have a gun?

#### MIRA

Because I'm not your enemy.

#### ANYA

And I'm not yours.

#### MIRA

So why are you pointing a gun at me?

#### ANYA

In case you do something stupid, like leave, or die, or leave then die. Because that's what everyone else does.

##### [Mira sighs longer this time]

#### MIRA

I'm not gonna leave without my friends, alright? I promise.

##### [Beat]

##### [The gun is sheathed]

#### MIRA

Thank you. Now, you wanted to talk to me?

#### ANYA

Yeah. Riley said you plan to go to the bridge. The command deck?

#### MIRA

That's right.

#### ANYA

Well, I need to tell you that you can't.

#### MIRA

Why? Have you been there?

#### ANYA

No.

#### MIRA

Anya... I understand you don't want us to die. But we need to reach the bridge. We have to find out what happened to the Commander.

##### [Anya chuckles]

#### ANYA

The Commander. I remember the *Commander.* They put it in our brains, didn't they?

I spent years looking for the Commander. But don't worry. You do forget... in time.

#### MIRA

And you didn't think to look on the bridge?

#### ANYA

Shield. Locked up tight. No way in.

#### MIRA

Well -- we need to try.

#### ANYA

No! You'll die. Everyone else always dies. You're only safe here.

#### MIRA

So what, you want us to just stay in these three rooms for... the rest of our lives?

#### ANYA

Yes!

...No, I don't know. I don't want you to die. And out there, there's the whistlers and traps and... I don't want to be alone again.

#### MIRA

I understand that, Anya, but we can't --

What's this?

#### ANYA

Oh! That's my map.

##### [Footsteps]

##### [Pages flipping]

#### MIRA

_(awed)_ You did this yourself? It's *huge.*

#### ANYA

It's a big place. And I've had time.

#### MIRA

It's *so detailed!* And up to date, you got that cave-in -- so where...

Here.

#### ANYA

That's right.

#### MIRA

So we would've come... _(flips more pages)_ That must be the farm.

Ah! There's the generator room we came through.

#### ANYA

_(surprised)_ You got through there alive? Lucky.

#### MIRA

You're not the only one who can set traps.

##### [Anya makes an affirmative noise]

#### MIRA

And then -- we would've come through here and... hang on. Where's the parade ground?

#### ANYA

The what?

#### MIRA

It's a huge room. Must be about a mile across? More, maybe. Should be a few levels below this corridor you've got here, but the map just stops.

#### ANYA

You came from down there? Impossible! That whole area's sealed off. I think there are some vents the whistlers can squeeze through, but not me.

#### MIRA

I mean... it was a pretty solid door, but me and Riley got it open eventually.

#### ANYA

You *opened* it?

#### MIRA

Yeah, well -- I have a lot of technical skills, and Riley's good with mechanics as well. I think they're meant to be a roboticist, so...

##### [A pause.]

Anya.

What is it?

#### ANYA

_(shifty)_ Nothing.

#### MIRA

Anya... was it the same type of the door that leads to the bridge? The type you can't get through?

#### ANYA

You'll die if you try to reach it. There's so many whistlers, you'll die!

#### MIRA

Not if you're guiding us --

#### ANYA

Don't. Don't ask me to do that. I hunt alone. And you'll be here when I get back! I do everything alone.

#### MIRA

You don't have to. Not this time.

------

#### ZACK

She does have an awful lot of flares, doesn't she. And... this. What is all this stuff?

#### LUNA

That's a soil analyzer. _(alarmed)_ Oh -- Riley, that's a portable atmosphere filtration hub you've got there. Careful, it's *quite* delicate.

#### RILEY

Oh, er -- sorry.

#### LUNA

No no no, it's... _(sighs)_ I don't think any of us are going to be doing terraforming any time soon.

##### [She sighs again, longer]

#### LEVI

I'm sorry. None of us will get to do what we're meant to.

#### LUNA

No. But sometimes I wonder if that's such a bad thing.

##### [Levi exhales]

#### LUNA

Do you think she's okay in there?

#### RILEY

Anya? Well, she's been through a lot, but --

#### LUNA

No, Mira! You don't think Anya's... hurting her?

#### LEVI

Well, I'm sure she's fine.

#### RILEY

She didn't hurt me, why would she hurt Mira?

#### ZACK

So Riley, you think Mira's going to convince our crazy grandma to let us leave?

#### RILEY

_(sharp)_ Don't call her crazy. She's just had a difficult life.

#### ZACK

Sorry. Didn't mean to -- _(sighs)_ Sorry. Just blowing off steam. She did kidnap and tie us up.

#### RILEY

I know. I know, but -- I kind of... like her? She's not really like anyone else I've ever met.

#### LEVI

You've met four other people.

#### RILEY

You know what I mean. But she's survived for so long in this place against those things... I had a panic attack just *seeing* one.

#### LEVI

Well, she's had a long time to get used to the sight.

#### RILEY

_(firmly)_ She deserves a little respect, that's all. She's a survivor.

##### [The hatch rattles open]

#### LUNA

_(gasps)_ Mira! You're okay.

#### MIRA

Of course I am.

#### ZACK

How'd it go with -- Anya?

#### MIRA

She's, er...

I think I got through to her.

#### LEVI

Meaning what?

#### MIRA

Meaning: we're going to find the Commander.

------

##### [Building noises of metal; it sounds rhythmic, like pumps]

##### [The sound reaches an apex, then gradually fades off into the distance]

#### MIRA

Now what?

#### ANYA

Now we wait for the pumps in the next room to shut off. Then, we go.

#### ZACK

_(whispering)_ Shouldn't we be keeping our voices down?!

#### ANYA

_(normal volume)_ *Why?*

#### ZACK

_(whispering)_ The -- *whistlers!*

#### ANYA

I don't think they have *ears.*

#### ZACK

Oh.

#### LEVI

So how do they hunt?

#### ANYA

Never been sure if it's heat or some kind of radiation that we can't sense. Whatever it is, the human body gives off a lot of it. But it's pretty easily hidden by certain kinds of machinery.

It lingers, though. A whistler can track you down half the station if it's got a mind to.

#### MIRA

So what do you do?

#### ANYA

Nothing. It's just, they usually don't *have* a mind to. They've got a huge freezer full of meals. If it gets too hot, if there's a door they can't easily force or get round with a vent... they'll usually give up.

#### LUNA

_(chipper and a little smug)_ Sounds pretty smart to me.

#### ANYA

What do you mean?

#### MIRA

*Nothing.*

#### LUNA

We've just had some disagreements about how -- sentient the whistlers are.

#### ANYA

Oh, yeah, they are. Got a society and everything!

#### MIRA

*What?*

#### ANYA

I mean, I don't understand it, but when I kill one of them, the others do a weird little funeral for it. And there's something they do with harmonies that has a social function, I think.

#### LUNA

_(horrified)_ And you're still trying to *kill* them all?

#### ANYA

Heh. Not got quite that much ambition. Just trying to stay alive and keep their numbers down.

#### LUNA

Have you ever tried to communicate?

#### ANYA

How? I mean, I can look at them and say, "maybe that's people," but I don't think they can comprehend *me* that way. I'm just a moving thing that looks like food. I don't think we'd even be able to recognise the world as they perceive it. So how are we supposed to talk to them?

#### MIRA

_(her turn to be smug:)_ A very good question.

#### LUNA

_(mumbling, a little bitter)_ At least I tried.

#### ANYA

Plus, they killed and ate everyone I ever knew. So I don't lose sleep over returning the favor.

##### [The pumping metal noises disappear entirely]

Right. On we go. If we keep following the cycle, we should be able to avoid them almost all the way to the bridge.

##### [Footsteps]

#### MIRA

Luna? Are you coming?

#### LUNA

Yeah.

_(quieter)_ Sorry.

#### MIRA

Not too far now.

------

#### ZACK

So this is it. Behind here lies the bridge, the command center, the Commander...

#### MIRA

We'll see. Doesn't look like it's been open in a very long time. So let's not get our hopes up.

#### RILEY

I'm mainly hoping to get through the next ten minutes without being eaten, so...

##### [A few knocks against metal]

#### LEVI

Hm. Seems solid enough.

#### ANYA

Yeah. That's why I've never managed to open it before. Now whatever you do to get it open, do it *fast.* This place is deep in --

##### [A distant, high whistle]

##### [Everyone sucks in a breath]

#### ANYA

That's what I said.

#### MIRA

_(strained)_ Come on... Levi, can you give us a hand with this panel?

#### LEVI

Sure.

##### [Footsteps as Levi walks over]

#### ZACK

What do we do?

##### [Background noises of Levi yanking at the panel]

#### LUNA

I think we just try not to get in the way.

#### ZACK

Anya?

#### ANYA

If you have any religious memories, a prayer couldn't hurt.

#### ZACK

Sorry, afraid not.

##### [A snap as metal breaks apart from metal]

#### LEVI

Got it!

#### MIRA

Great. Riley, you know the drill.

#### RILEY

Yep. Hang on.

##### [Metalworking noises]

#### ANYA

How long does it usually take them?

#### ZACK

Less than a minute.

#### ANYA

Okay.

##### [The whistlers call again, closer now]

#### ZACK

"Okay" what?

#### ANYA

Okay, maybe we die, maybe we don't.

##### [Something bangs against something]

#### MIRA

*Shit!*

#### RILEY

What is it?

#### MIRA

There's some sort of additional security bolt. It looks like the other doors, but it's more secure!

#### ZACK

I guess that makes sense, it being the bridge and all.

#### LEVI

Can you open it?

#### MIRA

I don't know! We're trying!

#### ANYA

_(calmly)_ Okay, we die.

#### ZACK

Er... Anya?

#### ANYA

Yes?

#### ZACK

You have two guns.

#### ANYA

Of course! This one might break.

#### ZACK

Right, or... one of us could use it?

#### ANYA

Have any of you fired a gun? Even in your memories?

#### LUNA

No.

#### LEVI

Sorry.

#### ZACK

I mean, that's not exactly --

#### ANYA

Then get behind me and keep those flares ready!

##### [A harmony of whistles, closer now]

#### ANYA

Wait... Wait for it...

##### [A long pause, except for the whistles --]

#### ANYA

**Now!**

##### [The flares go off with a blast]

##### [Anya fires shots with a clinking noise]

##### [The whistlers howl all around them]

#### ZACK

Mira! How long?

#### MIRA

How long have you got?

#### ZACK

No time. We have literally *no* time!

##### [More fighting, whistling, howling --]

#### MIRA

Got it! It's open, get inside!

#### ANYA

Drop the flares! *Go!*

##### [Footsteps, running]

##### [The noises start fading somewhat]

#### LUNA

Riley! The release, get it closed!

##### [A thunk]

##### [For a while, nothing but the sounds of everyone catching their breaths]

#### MIRA

_(breathing hard)_ Did anybody bring a torch?

##### [Suddenly, the panting stops]

##### [A few shocked exhales]

#### MIRA

Never mind.