---
layout:          post
title:           "MAGP 30.01 - System Update (Season 1 Epilogue)"
date:            2024-09-26 15:00:00 # in UTC
episode_type:      [epilogue, episode]
epilogue:        true
tags:            []
voiced:          []
categories:			"tmagp"
podcasts: ["tmagp"]
title_prefix:	"MAGP"
prev_categories: ["tmagp"]
prev_prefixes: ["MAGP"]
prev_episode:	['030']
prev_episode_num:		['030']
prev_episode_title:		["Dead End Job"]
episode_title:   'System Update'
episode_number:  '030.01'
content_flags:   ["Screaming", "Harsh Language"]
acast_url:      https://shows.acast.com/themagnusarchives/episodes/the-magnus-protocol-s1-epilogue
formats:
    Official PDF: https://rustyquillcom.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/ElFMfJSzHzRMhhWGghFX8E8Bg27o0_Amiemvu0Hqq8D6Yg
official:        true
---

#### ANNOUNCER (ALEX NEWALL)

Hello everybody and congratulations on making it to the end of the first season of *The Magnus Protocol!*

Ahead of today's episode, we thought it might be a good idea to give everyone a rundown of what to expect during the hiatus and what else we have going on in the meantime because, as always, there's a lot. Like a *lot.*

Okay. First things first, we have a bunch of bonus content unlocked thanks to Kickstarter and Patreon backers, so thank you to everyone who contributed to our horrible silliness!

Today's episode is the first of our bonus hiatus content, and we're starting with the Epilogue for Season 1. This little addenda to what you've already heard is canon and I'll be honest, *pretty important to listen to for the story,* even if it isn't a full-length episode.

After this we have our first Fluff episode that we have affectionately titled: "Plenty of Fish." Though technically canon, it is absolutely *not* essential to the plot and is guaranteed absolutely zero horror. Just a slice of O.I.A.R. life.

Then we have our first "What If" episode, rather *less* affectionately titled: "What if everyone just listened to Colin?" This is non-canon and takes a look at how things would have panned out in the story with one small but important change. We'll leave you to guess what we changed in this one.

After this we have a whole host of additional content including the Season 2 trailer and the release of our latest Rusty Fears, which you'll be able to vote on, with the winner getting to help write an episode of *Protocol!* We might even try to sneak in a Q&A and some third-party recordings... if you're good.

After all this, you can expect a return of *The Magnus Protocol* for Season 2 in February, 2025.

We know that feels a long way off, but making this show is an *absolutely monumental* effort and as fun as making it is, our staff have yet to volunteer to have their weak fleshy bodies replaced by glorious chrome, so they do *occasionally* need a break. For now.

Outside of the main feed, though, it's busy, busy, busy with the Season 2 Premiere Preview on the way.

In terms of other bonus materials, don't worry, we are still working on all of them -- we are just waiting on some third-party bits and bobs beyond our control. We'll update everyone on each element as soon as we are sure things are locked in, so be sure to keep an eye on Kickstarter and Patreon updates.

Beyond that, I am happy to say final approvals on The Magnus Archives TTRPG developed by Monte Cook Games are complete, and stuff is looking *very* shiny and should be being printed in enormous numbers as we speak!

In a similar vein, many of you will already know that we have a Magnus Protocol board game on the way, developed by the team behind the *massively* popular Coup, The Resistance and Sherlock Files games. The fundraising for this project will be starting soon, so make sure you head over to rustyquill.com/boardgame where you can register your interest for when it goes live and get first dibs on some early-bird goodies.

And if ALL THAT is still not enough for you, you greedy little content goblin, don't forget we have an entire network of shows you can fill your boots on, not to mention *Neon Inkwell,* our in-house sister podcast where we showcase the brightest (and darkest) new talent in audio fiction, including some familiar names too.

Well. That's about everything for now, apart from saying thank you to every one of you who helps make this possible, and hoping you enjoy today's episode.

Or don't. I mean, it's gonna happen to you either way, so...

##### [Intro Theme]

#### ANNOUNCER

Rusty Quill Presents: The Magnus Protocol.

Season One Epilogue.

##### [Music]

---

<!-- 1. INT. MANAGER'S OFFICE -- NIGHT, CLEAR (LANDLINE) GWEN sits in the big chair idly drumming her fingers on the desk. The main office door opens outside, and she freezes.  -->

##### [Some static fuzzing as the landline begins to record]

##### [Distant footsteps]

#### GWEN

_(cautious)_ Hello?

...Lena?

##### [The footsteps continue]

##### [Gwen very quietly inhales, exhales, and stands]

#### ALICE

Lena, we need to talk --

##### [The door opens]

##### [Gwen moves to strike, only to pull up short]

#### ALICE

Gah!

#### GWEN

AHHH!

##### [Alice shoves Gwen who stumbles backward.] 

#### GWEN

Oh for *Christ's* sake Alice --

#### ALICE

*Gwen?!* What are you doing in here? 

#### GWEN

_(getting up)_ I thought you were... someone else. 

#### ALICE

Right. _(shaking it off)_ Where's Lena? I need to talk to her.

##### [Gwen walks slowly back to the desk, attempting to reassert herself.]

#### GWEN

Lena's gone.

#### ALICE

...

_(haggard and urgent)_ Gone where? 

#### GWEN

_(starting to enjoy herself)_ Who's to say? 

#### ALICE

Stop pissing around, Gwen, she's not picking up her phone and this is *important.* 

#### GWEN

Well, then, I can't wait to hear it --

#### ALICE

_(angry)_ *Gwen* -- 

#### GWEN

-- since *I'm* in charge now. 

#### ALICE

_(thrown)_ I -- You what? 

#### GWEN

_(pleased as punch)_ You heard. Lena's been let go on multiple counts of negligence, incompetence, possibly even corruption.

#### ALICE

This isn't a *fucking joke,* Gwen! Sam's...

##### [She can't say it.] 

#### GWEN

_(starting to become concerned)_ What?

...

_(louder)_ Sam's what, Alice? 

#### ALICE

_(breaking)_ I-I don't --

...He and Celia. They found a -- thing, and one of your Externals was there and they...

She says he...

##### [Beat.]

##### [Alice cries.]

#### GWEN

_(quiet horror)_ Dead? 

#### ALICE

_(choking)_ No! ...Maybe... *No!* I don't know! 

#### GWEN

_(exasperated sigh)_ You're not making *sense,* Alice. Where's Celia? I-I'll ask her myself. 

#### ALICE

_(rasping)_ She went home. She needed to be with her baby.

#### GWEN

You're serious, aren't you?

##### [Alice sniffles, trying to get her breathing back under control]

#### GWEN

...I-I don't know what to say. 

#### ALICE

No. You don't. 

#### GWEN

So... What do we do? 

#### ALICE

_(bitter)_ Well, I *was* going to talk to Lena! But apparently it's just your *useless* arse here.

#### GWEN

_(offended laugh)_ Excuse me? I am *not* useless --

#### ALICE

Save it!

##### [Gwen audibly stops herself]

##### [When she speaks again, she sounds calm. Official.]

#### GWEN

Look, I'll admit, this is still *very* new to me. Do you know if Lena had any sort of -- documentation, for this sort of thing? 

#### ALICE

_(softly)_ *What?!*

#### GWEN

You know, like a guide, a manual, that sort of thing? 

#### ALICE

_(exhausted)_ *No!* I don't think she had a *manual* for this!

#### GWEN

I just need something that explains her role. The procedures... 

#### ALICE

_(so fucking done)_ Gwen. Please, just *stop.*

##### [A long pause. The clock ticks.]

#### GWEN

Look. I know this is hard, but Lena must have had a *contingency* for something like this. I mean, look how quickly she dealt with Colin! All we need to do is find a manual and just --

#### ALICE

Shit! Colin!

#### GWEN

_(facade dropping)_ *Jesus,* it got Colin too?! 

#### ALICE

What? No. H-He called me, just before -- _(voice cracking)_ He sounded in a bad way, and then, with everything, I-I just... I never called him back. 

#### GWEN

_(sighs)_ Oh, fine, just make it quick. We've got enough on our plate without --

##### [A phone rings distantly in the main office. It is an uncharacteristically upbeat tune.]

##### [Beat.]

#### GWEN

Is that...? 

#### ALICE

_(quiet)_ Colin...

##### [Silence. The ringtone continues.]

#### GWEN

_(trying for hope)_ Maybe he -- came in to do some work? 

#### ALICE

_(blankly)_ He wasn't out there when I came in. 

#### GWEN

Maybe he... just left his phone here? 

#### ALICE

He *was* getting weird about them... But then how did he call me last night?

##### [The ringing stops.]

#### ROBOTIC VOICE

_(muffled)_ Your call was --

#### ALICE

Voicemail.

##### [She hangs up, then redials. The ringtone starts up again.]

#### ALICE

Come on.

##### [They start walking]

---

<!-- #### 2. LONDON EXCLUSION ZONE -- NIGHT, CLEAR (TAPE

RECORDER) The zone is quiet, though there is an oppressiveness to it that makes it clear all is not well. Wind whistles through crumbling ruins and occasionally the movement of unnatural things can be heard in the distance. The portal opens. It sounds very unpleasant, like a wet tearing of reality, and SAM falls through with a cry, slamming into the muddy ground. He lies there for a few moments, trying to catch his breath, but it won't come.  -->

##### [Tape recorder clicks on]

##### [Wind whistles. It sounds oppressive, heavy]

##### [It builds and builds and builds -- we hear a faint scream -- and then it *tears*]

##### [Sam shouts, then groans in pain as he hits the ground]

##### [The portal closes. The wind resides.]

#### SAM

_(barely a gasp)_ Where...

##### [He collapses]

##### [Click.]

---

<!-- 3. OIAR SERVER ROOM -- NIGHT, CLEAR (COMPUTER) The ringtone is much clearer, obviously in the same room now, though it sounds like it might be inside of something. The ringtone ends. The door opens and ALICE and GWEN enter.  -->

##### [O.I.A.R. computer whirs on]

##### [We hear the last few notes of the ringtone, extremely close by the microphone]

##### [Something is vibrating against metal]

##### [The ringtone ends, and the vibration stops]

##### [The door opens]

#### GWEN

You're *sure* it was in here.

#### ALICE

Pretty sure.

_(calling)_ Colin?

##### [There is no answer]

##### [The two of them walk around]

#### GWEN

Maybe he's... hiding? 

#### ALICE

_(annoyed)_ Why would he be *hiding?* 

#### GWEN

He's not supposed to be here, remember? Not after the whole... hammer thing. 

#### ALICE

Well, his phone is, at least.

##### [They continue searching slowly]

#### GWEN

Anything? 

#### ALICE

Nope.

#### GWEN

...Try calling again.

##### [Alice sighs, but calls again. The extremely clear ringtone restarts.]

#### GWEN

Over there.

##### [Footsteps as they move towards the ringtone, then stop]

#### GWEN

You think he left his phone on a server rack...?

#### ALICE

Well I hardly think he's hiding *inside* it, do you?

##### [Beat. The ringtone rings.]

#### GWEN

Open it. 

#### ALICE

*You* open it!

#### GWEN

Alice, I am your manager and I am *telling* you to open it. 

#### ALICE

And *I* am telling you, not a cat-in-hell's chance!

#### GWEN

Oh for goodness sake, must I do everything myself?

##### [Gwen grabs a server rack and yanks]

##### [The phone rings loudly and vibrates across the metal board]

#### ALICE

_(quietly)_ Oh, *Colin*... 

#### GWEN

What are you even --

##### [Gwen screams]

##### [The microphone clicks off]

---

##### [Music]

#### ANNOUNCER

The Magnus Protocol is a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill and licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Sharealike 4.0 International License. The series is created by Jonathan Sims and Alexander J Newall, and directed by Alexander J Newall.

This episode was written by Jonathan Sims and edited with additional materials by Alexander J Newall, with vocal edits by Nico Vettese, soundscaping by Meg McKellar, and mastering by Catherine Rinella with music by Sam Jones.

It featured Billie Hindle as Alice Dyer, Shahan Hamza as Samama Khalid, Anusia Battersby as Gwen Bouchard.

The Magnus Protocol is produced by April Sumner, with executive producers Alexander J Newall, Dani McDonough, Linn Ci, and Samantha F.G. Hamilton, and Associate Producers Jordan L. Hawk, Taylor Michaels, Nicole Perlman, Cetius d'Raven, and Megan Nice.

To subscribe, view associated materials, or join our Patreon, visit rustyquill.com. Rate and review us online, tweet us @therustyquill, visit us on facebook or email us at mail@rustyquill.com.

Thanks for listening.