---
layout:          post
title:           "OTCW007 - Fall Away"
date:            2024-01-05 12:00:00 -0400
episode_type:      episode
categories:			"neon"
podcasts: ["neon"]
neon_category:   ["otcw"]
title_prefix:	"OTCW"
prev_categories: ["neon"]
prev_prefixes: ["OTCW"]
prev_episode:   ['005']
prev_episode_num:		['006']
prev_episode_title:		["Cold Command"]
episode_title:   "Fall Away"
episode_number:  '007'
summary:         "One final question remains..."
content_flags:   ["Isolation", "Existential Choices", "Peril", "Discussions of: death, extinction, suicide", "SFX: beeps, ominous whistling, gunshots (space)"]
acast_url:       https://shows.acast.com/neon-inkwell/episodes/neon-inkwell-of-that-colossal-wreck-7
official:        false
unofficial:      https://ghostvines.github.io/transcripts
unofficial_name: ghostvines
wiki_url:        
---

##### [A pneumatic hiss]

##### [Machinery works in the background]

##### [Metal clinks on the ground as footsteps continue, then stop]

#### ANYA

Here. This should be the one.

#### RILEY

Finally. I know you said it was going to be hot in here, but *oof.*

#### ANYA

No other way to get this close to the queen without them swarming us. You saw the schematics.

#### RILEY

Why would they have a pipe this hot so near to their nest, anyway?

#### ANYA

This close to the reactor, ther's a lot of ambient heat. They want to keep themselves cool. It's got to be redirected somewhere.

##### RILEY

Mmm. Lucky us.

#### ANYA

What I don't understand is why they set their nest up here in the first place.

##### [Another pneumatic hiss]

#### RILEY

Only one way to find out, I guess. You're sure this is the right one?

#### ANYA

I'm sure.

##### [The whistlers howl in the distance, growing closer as they walk]

#### RILEY

Shit.

How many do you think there are?

#### ANYA

_(audible shrug)_ Enough.

#### RILEY

What is that thing?

#### ANYA

_(surprised)_ I don't know. It's *huge.* Must have come through the bulkhead.

#### RILEY

I think -- Anya, I think it's a *ship* of some kind. It must be how they came here?

#### ANYA

Maybe? Or maybe it's how they nest.

#### RILEY

I don't see anything that looks like a queen, though. They all look... normal. What's this queen supposed to look like, anyway?

#### ANYA

Big. Big enough to spawn the rest of them.

#### RILEY

Hold on -- hand me those binoculars.

##### [A pause]

Nope, nothing like that. They all look normal. Well -- as far as "normal" as a whi--

_(spotting something)_ Oh. No, hang on.

##### [Binoculars adjust]

Eggs. I see eggs.

#### ANYA

But not what's laying them?

#### RILEY

I think --

##### [Pause as they keep adjusting the focus]

Oough, it looks like they can all lay them. I don't think there is a queen.

#### ANYA

_(darkly)_ Well, it doesn't matter.

##### [As Riley speaks, we can hear Anya taking off her bag and opening it]

#### RILEY

What do you mean it doesn't matter, of course it matters! The *plan* was to take the queen out from afar, and then run.

##### [Silence]

Anya... What was the plan?

#### ANYA

The plan was for you to cover me. Then run!

##### [A pause]

#### RILEY

Is that what I think it is?

#### ANYA

Found it in a munitions locker. Should take out this whole section.

#### RILEY

And you *with it?*

#### ANYA

We don't have time to argue.

#### RILEY

So I'm supposed to just let you kill yourself.

#### ANYA

And then --

#### RILEY

No! I refuse, I will no--

Wait.

Where did they all go?

##### [Silence]

##### [A low, roar-like whistle]

##### [It comes again, from another side]

#### ANYA

Too late.

------

##### [Anxious footsteps]

#### LUNA

They've taken some of the explosives.

#### MIRA

Does anyone know where they might have gone?

#### LEVI

Anya wanted to go to the nest.

#### ZACK

They wouldn't have gone on their own, surely...

##### [As they speak, there is faint rhythmic pounding from outside the room, like the whistlers are still trying to get in]

#### MIRA

Anya's been fighting whistlers and not doing much else for decades.

#### LEVI

Yeah, she might have talked Riley into going alone.

#### LUNA

I think they went through the side door. They can't have too much of a head start.

#### MIRA

Right. Does anyone know how to use any of these weapons?

##### [A long silence]

_(resigned)_ Just me, then. Everyone else, grab some flares. We might be able to catch up with them if we hurry.

##### [Quick footsteps as they disperse]

------

#### ANYA

No luck?

#### RILEY

Looks like they're waiting outside all of the vents leading into the heating pipes.

#### ANYA

It's the same that way.

#### RILEY

There must be other ways out.

#### ANYA

There are two. One into the reactor, and one into open space.

##### [Riley sighs]

#### RILEY

Shit.

##### [The rhythmic pounding continues. It is louder here.]

Shut *up!* Why don't they just come in and get it over with?

#### ANYA

Too hot for them. And besides, they don't need to!

#### RILEY

Can't stay in here forever. -- So what's the plan?

#### ANYA

Same as it was before.

#### RILEY

You're still planning to blow yourself up?

#### ANYA

Well, I hope to take more of them with me, but at least I'll get the eggs. And it should distract them enough for *you* to get out of here.

#### RILEY

No. I'm not going to let you do it.

#### ANYA

How are you going to stop me? I'm the one with the bomb.

#### RILEY

_(sure)_ If you go out there, I'm coming with you.

#### ANYA

What are you *talking* about!? No you're not.

#### RILEY

Are you going to blow me up as well?

#### ANYA

Oh this is ridiculous. Just let me go.

#### RILEY

*No.*

#### ANYA

Riley... This is what I'm *for.* I *kill* things.

#### RILEY

That isn't true. You saved us.

#### ANYA

I almost killed you.

#### RILEY

But you didn't! And without you, we would never have made it as far as we have. We *need* you.

#### ANYA

Everyone's on their own in the end. Even if this won't stop them all, it will hurt them more than I ever have.

My entire life, hunting these things, being hunted, it's all I've done! So __that's__ how I end.

##### [Beat]

#### RILEY

It doesn't have to be.

#### ANYA

_(scoffs)_ What's the alternative? What else am I good for? I've seen how the others look at me. Like I'm something to be pitied. Like I'm *broken.*

#### RILEY

We're *all* broken, Anya. And you're worth more than blowing yourself up to kill a few dozen whistlers.

#### ANYA

_(acerbic)_ So what else do I do?

#### RILEY

_(firm)_ That's up to you. But I know that you're more useful alive than you are dead.

##### [Beat]

#### ANYA

You -- really think so?

#### RILEY

I *do.* And so do the others!

##### [Another beat]

#### ANYA

...Fine.

##### [Fabric rustles as she hands over the bomb]

Take the thing. Green switch on the side should disarm it.

##### [Riley exhales in relief]

##### [A hiss as the bomb is disarmed]

#### ANYA

So what now? We're still trapped.

##### [A few clinks of gunfire from outside]

#### ZACK

_(distant)_ Riley!

#### LEVI

_(distant)_ Down there?

#### RILEY

_(calling up to them)_ We're here!

#### MIRA

_(distant)_ This way! Hurry!

#### RILEY

I knew it! Hah! Come on, Anya.

------

##### [Running footsteps]

##### [Panting breaths]

#### LEVI

Mira, the door!

##### [The door slams shut]

##### [The soundscape instantly falls away, with only the sound of everyone's breathing left]

#### ZACK

At least it was quicker to get in with the Commander's key!

##### [Several people are still catching their breaths]

#### ANYA

They're not going anywhere this time. There's too many of them, and they are __very angry.__

#### MIRA

Then we need to find a way out of here. One where they can't follow.

#### ANYA

Our best bet's probably a maintenance tunnel. Something cut off from the main corridors.

#### RILEY

I'll check the plans, see if there's anything leading away from the bridge.

##### [Hurried footsteps as they go. There are beeps from the console as Mira keeps speaking:]

#### MIRA

Good. I'll guard the door. Levi, Zack, Luna, gather as many supplies as you can. We probably won't be back here for a while. Anya, help Riley.

#### ANYA

You're not in charge of me.

#### LEVI

You know the station better than anyone, Anya. Please.

##### [Beat]

#### ANYA

Fine.

##### [She shoves herself to her feet]

#### MIRA

Riley, anything?

#### RILEY

Still looking. There's a maintenance tunnel through the floor, but it looks like it just doubles back into the corridors.

#### ANYA

The whistlers could be halfway over this level by now.

#### MIRA

Well, is there anywhere on another level we could get to?

#### ZACK

What about those shuttles?

#### LEVI

Wh--this is hardly the time to decide --

#### ZACK

Just the shuttle bay, then. That would be far enough away to give us some breathing room, right?

#### MIRA

Could we get there?

#### RILEY

I think we could probably get to the nearest lift.

#### ANYA

_(darkly)_ Most of them don't work.

#### RILEY

We might be able to fix it?

#### MIRA

Any better options?

#### RILEY

None I've found yet. I-I can keep looking...

##### [A beat]

#### MIRA

Let's try the lift. I'll do what I can with the controls here. Levi, cover the door for me.

#### RILEY

Right. We should be able to get down through here.

#### ANYA

I'll get the tools.

##### [Footsteps as she goes]

#### LEVI

Wait. I think there's some communicators in with the supplies. _(rustles as he reaches into a bag)_ Here, take one of these with you.

##### [They depart]

##### [A beat]

H-*How* do I--

#### MIRA

_(firmly)_ Just keep it pointed at the door, and squeeze the trigger as soon as you see movement.

#### LEVI

Right. Thanks.

##### [Footsteps as he departs]

#### MIRA

Riley, Anya, can you hear me?

#### RILEY

_(staticky through communicator)_ Yeah, it's working.

#### MIRA

Great. Keep us updated. I think I've found the lift you're heading to on the plans, so I should be able to monitor its status.

#### LEVI

_(exhales sharply)_ If we do manage to make it to the shuttle bay... we're not really leaving, are we?

#### ZACK

Why not? What would we stay for, really?

#### LEVI

Well -- what about the fact that there are still hundreds of thousands of people here stuck in stasis?

#### ZACK

They'll be stuck in stasis whether we're here or not. This place is *far* too broken for us to try waking them all. And that's only as long as we can try them one at a time... and how many of them relate to the Commander?

#### LEVI

W-w-we could at least *try!*

#### ZACK

I'm sorry, Levi, but we're more likely to turn those pods into *coffins* than to get anyone out of them.

#### LEVI

And if they wake up anyway? Like we did, or Anya's group?

#### LUNA

What if they don't? Do you *really* want to spend your life waiting for strangers who might never show up?

#### LEVI

It's not just about the others. The six of us could build a life together, at least. Leaving the station isn't safe.

##### [A few particularly loud bangs outside the wall-shield]

#### MIRA

Hah.

#### LEVI

Well it's safer than out there! ...Maybe there's another farm in some other part of the station. Like, further away from the whistlers.

#### ZACK

Sure. We may be able to find somewhere like that if we stayed. But *leaving!* We could find something *so* much better.

#### LUNA

Shouldn't we at least *try* to find out what else is out there? If there's anyone left from Earth? Or other life we could live alongside?

#### LEVI

God -- Mira, you *can't* think this is a good idea!

#### MIRA

I don't. But I don't necessarily think it's a good idea to stay here, either.

But, if we have to choose -- and it looks like we might... I don't know what I'd be outside of the station. I can remember being other places... but they don't *exist* anymore. The only thing I know I can do is try to keep us all alive, here and now.

##### [She sighs]

Which is what I'm trying to do now, *if* you don't mind.

------

##### [Tinkering noises, rhythmic]

#### ANYA

Still glad you stopped me blowing up the nest?

#### RILEY

Yeah. I think I'd rather go out trying to live than trying to kill.

#### ANYA

Maybe you're right. I'm sorry for dragging you down there.

#### RILEY

You didn't drag me. I chose to go.

#### ANYA

How much do you think the others really want to fly off into space?

#### RILEY

_(a considering breath)_ Well, I guess Zack's keen. Luna too, I think. Obviously Levi doesn't want to, but I'm not really sure why, and -- I can't tell what Mira wants.

#### ANYA

But *you* don't want to go.

#### RILEY

I -- wouldn't have *thought* so, before, but... maybe.

#### ANYA

Because of the whistlers?

##### [Beat]

#### RILEY

No -- well, actually yeah, a bit, but mostly... Well, what would we actually *do* if we stayed? I hate the thought of just waiting here!

#### ANYA

_(darkly)_ Like me.

#### RILEY

No -- you've had the whistlers to deal with, you've been fighting all this time. I guess I thought maybe that would be what I could do too, but... I don't think that's actually what I want. ...I'm sorry.

#### ANYA

Why are you sorry? You're not me.

##### [Riley exhales a laugh]

#### RILEY

Right.

#### ANYA

It would be nice if you stayed, though.

#### RILEY

I'm not saying I definitely want to leave, I just mean... I can see how it might be -- hope. For some other life. Something to focus on that isn't just survival, it's --

#### ANYA

*Wait!*

##### [A long, tense silence]

##### [A very far-off whistle]

##### [The sound of resin, squelching]

##### [Soft transitional music begins to play]

##### [Two other far-off whistles, answering]

##### [Another, then another...]

------

##### [Static as the communicator turns on]

#### RILEY

_(fuzzy over communicator)_ Mira! Are you there?

#### MIRA

Yeah. I'm here. What's your status?

#### RILEY

_(fuzzy)_ We've got time, but they're pretty close.

#### MIRA

We'd better be quick, then. Can you access the lift's controls?

#### RILEY

_(fuzzy)_ Yes. But there's no power supply, it's *completely* dead.

#### MIRA

_(to herself)_ Shit. Let me look...

##### [A few beeps as she taps]

_(exhales)_ Looks like it's still connected. I might be able to reroute power.

##### [Footsteps approaching from behind]

#### LUNA

Mira--... Can we talk?

#### MIRA

Er -- not really the best time right now.

#### LUNA

Well there might not *be* another time, that's -- kind of the point.

#### MIRA

-- Fine. What's wrong?

#### LUNA

No -- nothing's *wrong,* I just --

Well. You said earlier you couldn't think what your life could be outside the station. Well I didn't want to say it with Levi and Zack *right there,* but...

I -- could be part of your life. _(raw)_ Like... a big part. I know that's not enough, but... maybe *we* could be a start? And we'd -- figure out the rest together?

#### MIRA

I... um...

_(slow, sincere)_ I might like that.

##### [Luna laughs, quiet but joyous]

#### LUNA

_(audibly smiling)_ Good.

##### [Mira huffs out a laugh, too]

##### [Then an exhale as she remembers:]

#### MIRA

But we can talk about this later. There'll be time. I promise.

#### RILEY

_(staticky)_ Mira, how's it looking on the console?

#### MIRA

Er -- yep. Should be working any second.

##### [Her voice becomes staticky as we move over to Riley and Anya]

#### MIRA

_(staticky over communicator)_ Let me know as soon as it lights up.

##### [A short ping!]

#### RILEY

That's it! Give me a second.

##### [They yank open a panel; metal squeaks as they work]

##### [An error noise]

#### RILEY

_(hissing)_ *Shit.* What now?

##### [The whistlers are getting louder in the distance]

#### ANYA

Riley...

#### RILEY

I know, I *know!*

#### MIRA

_(staticky)_ What's happening? Is it working?

#### RILEY

It's saying something about an override? I think you need to call it up from there.

#### ANYA

Can we do it from *down here?*

#### RILEY

...No. The folks who built this place really didn't want anyone but the Commander accessing these shuttles. -- Mira?

##### [Our focus shifts back to Mira and the others]

##### [The banging on the shields from before is now much louder]

##### [Luna is breathing very fast in the background]

#### MIRA

I -- yep. I think I found it. One second...

##### [Electric sparks; metal caves in]

##### [Luna screams]

#### MIRA

*Go!* Get down to the others!

#### LUNA

I don't --

#### MIRA

I'm right behind you!

##### [Hurried footsteps in the background as Luna, Levi, and Zack run]

##### [Two beeps from the console]

#### MIRA

_(calling)_ Got it!

##### [Tense music]

##### [Metal rattles -- a hatch closing]

#### LUNA

I can't see Mira!

#### LEVI

She's on her way.

#### ZACK

Riley?

#### RILEY

_(a little further off)_ Come on!

#### ANYA

They're coming. I'll cover you.

##### [Her gun charges up]

##### [The doors slide open]

#### RILEY

Get in! Hurry!

#### ZACK

You're sure it's safe?

#### RILEY

Nope!

#### ANYA

Where's Mira?

#### LEVI

Still on her way.

#### ANYA

_(doubtful)_ Uh...

#### LEVI

_(firm)_ We wait as long as we can.

#### ANYA

We already have! We've got to go!

#### LUNA

_(voice raising in panic)_ We *can't* just --

#### RILEY

Wait!

#### LUNA

*Mira!*

#### LEVI

She's here!

##### [The elevator doors slide shut, and the noises cut off]

##### [Mira groans in pain]

##### [Two last shots from outside]

##### [Everyone catches their breath as the lift works its way upwards]

#### RILEY

Well that was...

#### ZACK

Everyone okay? Any injuries?

#### LUNA

I think we're alright. Somehow.

##### [Silence as the lift continues rattling on its journey]

##### [It stops with a slight clunk]

##### [The doors slide open with a ding!]

##### [Soft, wondering music]

#### LEVI

Is this it?

#### ZACK

Where are the shuttles?

#### RILEY

Well, they should be straight down this way.

#### LEVI

_(deliberately neutral)_ Is that where we're going?

#### MIRA

...For now.

#### LEVI

Right.

##### [Nothing but the sound of their footsteps, and the music]

-----

##### [Riley exhales thoughtfully]

#### RILEY

This is it.

##### [Their voice echoes a little in the cavernous space]

#### ZACK

It's huge.

#### MIRA

It should be. There's space for nine shuttles.

##### [Footsteps as everyone walks around slowly]

#### LUNA

Well, there's definitely not more than eight! This bay's empty.

#### LEVI

This one too.

#### ANYA

This one's still here! Next one too.

#### ZACK

Look at the *size* of them!

Hang on, looks like there's a status panel. Mira, could you...

#### MIRA

Sure.

##### [She walks over; a few beeps as she taps]

There's fuel... _(beep)_ stocked... _(beep, beep)_ and functional. _(beep, beep)_ Designed to carry up to three hundred passengers for up to two years.

And... _(surprised and pleased)_ yeah. It has light speed.

#### ZACK

Sounds like a pretty good option.

#### RILEY

We still don't know what's out there.

#### LEVI

I say we vote on it. Whatever we do, we do together.

#### RILEY

Seems fair.

##### [A long silence]

##### [A rustle as one person shifts:]

#### ZACK

I vote we go. There are a few star systems we could easily reach in this thing. We don't know what's there, of course...

#### LUNA

I say we find out. I vote to go.

#### RILEY

I --

Yeah. Me too. I'm sorry, Levi.

#### LEVI

No. You know what, I-I... _(firm)_ I vote to go as well.

#### MIRA

_(surprised)_ Really. You're sure?

#### LEVI

Yeah. I think I am.

#### ZACK

What made you change your mind?

#### LEVI

D'you remember that graveyard we found back at the farm?

#### ZACK

I never went to see it myself, but -- yeah, I remember.

#### LEVI

You missed out. ...It was kind of lovely, actually. Flowers had grown all over it, with just these markers poking through. There must have been about... what, a-a hundred of them?

But there was one that hadn't been filled in. It was just a pit in the ground next to the rest, with a body laying at the bottom. Just bones, curled up like they might have just -- fallen asleep there and never woken up.

They must have buried everyone they'd ever known until they were the last one alive.

The more I think about it -- the more I realize that if we stay, if we go back to the farm or find another one, like I wanted... well, that's the best-case scenario. I don't want to be the last one left, and I don't want any of us to be -- _(voice breaking slightly)_ maybe I still will be, just on a ship, you know, instead of a station. But I think I'm going to choose to hope for something better. Or try, you know, anyway.

Besides, some of the other ships are already gone.

#### ZACK

Maybe there are others already out there!

#### RILEY

We don't know for sure...

#### LEVI

But I say let's find out.

#### MIRA

So it's decided. We go.

#### ANYA

No.

#### RILEY

_(surprised)_ No?

#### ANYA

*I'm* not going.

#### RILEY

Anya -- no, we're not just going to leave you here on your own!

#### ANYA

You've all only been here for -- what, a *month?* But I've lived here for decades. If there is anything else out there, it's not for me.

#### RILEY

But you'd be a--

#### ANYA

_(overlapping)_ *Alone.*

_(audible shrug)_ I'm very used to it. And I was thinking, maybe other people will wake up. Like you said they might. And maybe I can help *them.* If I'm still here.

Maybe I'll even send them on after you.

#### RILEY

I -- _(torn)_ I could stay. Help you out.

#### ANYA

_(not unkindly)_ No you couldn't. Thank you, Riley, for everything, but... You belong with them. Not with me.

#### MIRA

...If you're sure about this, then you should take the badge.

##### [Metal clasps, then unclasps]

#### ANYA

Oh! Oh, I guess that makes me the Commander!

#### MIRA

I guess it does.

#### ANYA

Thank you.

#### MIRA

Permission to disembark, Commander.

##### [A switch is pressed; a wall lifts]

#### ANYA

_(grandly)_ Permission granted.

#### LEVI

Goodbye, Anya. Keep safe.

#### ANYA

I'll try my best.

##### [A pause]

#### ZACK

Come on, Luna. Let's see what's out there.

#### LUNA

Can't wait. Goodbye, Anya.

##### [Their footsteps fade into the background]

#### RILEY

Will you be okay?

#### ANYA

Well I'm not the one heading out into a vast and uncaring universe!

#### RILEY

I'm not so sure about that.

#### ANYA

I've survived many, many years on my own. I'll manage.

...But I will miss you.

##### [Fabric rustles]

#### RILEY

_(a little muffled)_ I'll miss you too.

##### [Footsteps as they, too, depart]

##### [Metal squeaks as the shuttle adjusts into position]

#### LEVI

Do you think you can keep us alive out there as well?

#### MIRA

I'll try. Things will be different, though, on a ship. Day in... day out. We'll need a lot more than we need me.

#### LEVI

Do you think we'll find anything?

##### [A beat.]

#### MIRA

All we can do is hope.

##### [Soft, sweeping music fades in]

#### ANYA

Good luck.

##### [The faint sound of the shuttle coming to life, then sliding out of the bay]

##### [The music slowly, slowly fades out]

##### [Anya's lone footsteps recede into the distance]