---
layout:          post
title:           "MAGP 24 - Raising Issues"
date:            2024-08-01 15:00:00 # in UTC
episode_type:      episode
tags:            []
voiced:          []
categories:			"tmagp"
podcasts: ["tmagp"]
title_prefix:	"MAGP"
prev_categories: ["tmagp"]
prev_prefixes: ["MAGP"]
prev_episode:	['023']
prev_episode_num:		['023']
prev_episode_title:		["A New You"]
episode_title:   'Raising Issues'
episode_number:  '024'
summary:         "CAT1RBC1375-29022024-23042024<br/>Baby (demonic) --/- Delusion (exhaustion)"
content_flags:   ["Cannibalism", "Demonic Children", "Post-partum Depression", "Self-Sacrifice", "Altered Reality", "Delusion", "Deliberate Medical Malpractice"]
acast_url:      https://shows.acast.com/themagnusarchives/episodes/the-magnus-protocol-24-raising-issues
formats:
    Official PDF: https://rustyquillcom.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/ElFMfJSzHzRMhhWGghFX8E8Bg27o0_Amiemvu0Hqq8D6Yg
official:        true
---

#### ANNOUNCER

This episode is dedicated to I_need_cookies -- May you reach for your dreams and catch them.

##### [Transcriber's note: the username is read as "I underscore need underscore cookies"]

##### [Intro Theme]

#### ANNOUNCER

Rusty Quill Presents: The Magnus Protocol.

Episode Twenty-Four -- Raising Issues.

##### [Music]

---

##### [Landline fuzzes to life in the office]

##### [Steady typing noises]

##### [Three firm, polite knocks at the door]

#### LENA

Come in.

##### [Door opens; footsteps approach]

#### LENA

Good evening, Gwen. Take a seat.

##### [Gwen does so] 

#### LENA

You wanted to see me?

##### [Gwen takes a deep breath.]

#### GWEN

I'm ready. 

#### LENA

...Excuse me? 

#### GWEN

_(calm)_ I'm ready for my next assignment.

##### [Beat.]

#### LENA

I believe I was quite clear when I explained that you no longer *hold* the Externals Liaison position. 

#### GWEN

You were. 

#### LENA

Yet here you are, once again making demands.

##### [Gwen swallows her pride. Her voice comes out very, very steady.] 

#### GWEN

I understand now that I may have... mishandled myself previously and... I may have more to learn than I thought.

#### LENA

...

Go on. 

#### GWEN

But I've had some time to reflect, and... I can do this. I know I can. 

#### LENA

That doesn't change the fact that I *cannot* in good conscience give you your former role given everything that has happened. It would be -- irresponsible. 

#### GWEN

I'm not asking you to give it to me. I'm asking for the chance to work for it. To earn it. 

#### LENA

I see.

Then I will require you to be honest. You have been deeply troubled by your interactions with our Externals thus far. What has changed?

#### GWEN

I... _(exhales)_ have had some time to consider the situation, and I've decided I'd rather be on the inside. 

#### LENA

You believe working in this role would be less dangerous than simply quitting? That it could afford you some protection? 

#### GWEN

Am I wrong?

##### [A long pause.]

##### [Lena sighs.]

#### LENA

There is an upcoming visit from the new Minister. You will assist me in humoring him and expediting his departure. If you are able to do this without further complications, we can *discuss* your future position here.

Do I make myself clear?

#### GWEN

_(enunciating)_ Crystal. 

#### LENA

Good. Then get back to work. And close the door properly on your way out.

##### [Inhale. Exhale. Gwen restrains her instincts.]

##### [She stands and heads to the exit, opens the door, then hesitates.]

#### GWEN

_(dangerously calm)_ Thank you, Lena.

##### [She closes the door.]

#### LENA

_(wary, grumbling)_ Hmmm. 

---

##### [O.I.A.R. microphone whirs to life]

#### NORRIS

NapSafe nannycam, registration 977470, user: Patricia Spaulding  
Recording: 29.02.2024

##### [Soft sound of a rocking chair as Patricia rocks her baby in her arms.]

#### PATRICIA

There we go. Recording. The health visitor said it wasn't a good idea, but I wanted to remember everything that happens with Rupert. Especially given how little I remember of the birth, or the pregnancy. The health visitor says that's normal.

I'm already *completely* smitten with him. He's *perfect* -- his perfectly little round head, his chubby cheeks, his little plum-shaped chin, and his eyes. I read the eye color doesn't really settle until they're older, but the way he looks at me with these **big black orbs** staring right back at me... _(sighs happily)_ it makes my heart just burst with joy every time.

He *hasn't* been giving me much sleep of course, the little bugger. But that's to be expected. The health visitor said it was going to be like that for a while. According to her he needs to eat every four hours, so I need to try and sleep when he's sleeping.

Hasn't been easy though. I need to do a better job of keeping time, but I'm pretty sure he's eating more often than that.

A mum needs to be there for her little one. No matter what hour of the day it is, no matter what it takes -- I'm there for Rupey twenty-four-seven, even if I'm not getting much sleep during those twenty-four.

Rupert did this darling thing earlier where he stuck out his cute little tongue at me. It was so long and thin and curly and just -- adorable. Made my heart burst with love all over again for this wonderful little thing. 

#### NORRIS

First recording ends.

Second recording. 

#### PATRICIA

I think there's something wrong.

I don't know what it is. It's possible it's me, or it might be something else. I feel weird saying it out loud.

...I've started hearing things. Strange sounds.

There's only me and Rupert here in the house, I'm *sure* of that. The sounds haven't been the same, either. Sometimes they're moans, sometimes they're barks, like a dog that's far away... definitely not sounds another person would make. I've only heard them on those rare times when Rupert will stay by himself a little bit, dozing.

_(laughing to herself a little)_ I feel like I'm going crazy.

Oh, I shouldn't say that word! That's one of the lessons from the mum's support group. You *never* use that word to describe yourself. The instructor had a *long* chat about post-partum depression, and what to watch for. But it's not that. It --

_(sighs)_ I just need some sleep. Rupert keeps feeding like he doesn't know where he's going to get his next meal from.

I've been trying to follow their advice -- the support group. There's this lovely girl there, Celia. Really helpful. And Rupert just loves her. Always wants her to hold him.

He's so good at the group. Always puts on his best face on, and he never cries or snaps at them with those sharp little teeth... I feel a bit -- self-conscious, though, when I see one of the other mums staring at my bandage. *They* don't seem to need one. Still, the health visitor says every baby is different. I tried using a dummy but he just let it fall out of his mouth. He looked at me with such *hunger* in his eyes. I tried formula after that, but he still wasn't having it.

He's right, I suppose, he's -- *so* clever.

I'm going to admit something now. Just to you. Rupert's in the other room sleeping for the moment.

_(takes a deep breath)_ Sometimes I think there might be something wrong with Rupert...

##### [Beat.]

_(quickly)_ No, no, _(laughing a little)_ that's stupid! Now that I've said it out loud, it's just silly. I think it says more about me than him. Probably because I haven't been getting enough sleep. Maybe I *do* have postnatal problems? I'm going to have to remember to mention that at our next support meeting. 

#### NORRIS

Second recording ends. 

Third recording. 

#### PATRICIA

Things are... dark right now. Bleak. I know it's been a while since I did a recording...

I haven't been feeling that well lately. Still making sure to take care of the little one and feed him when he's hungry, which feels like all the bloody time these days.

##### [She sounds more monotone than before, tired]

But... but things just feel so heavy right now. And slow. Moving around is painful, and I always need more bandages. Thank god for the health visitor.

##### [Recurring throughout this recording is a faint sound in the background, almost like someone drinking through a straw -- feeding?]

It's all about Rupert though. He's the one who needs everything perfect. So he can keep growing and become a *perfect* little boy.

I don't matter as much. I'll start taking care of myself again when I need to... eventually.

I've skipped the last two support group meetings. Just haven't felt up to going. It's such a chore, packing up all the things Rupert might need. Nappies and wipes and baby powder and creams and extra clothes and burp cloths and... it's just -- _(getting a little angry)_ it's all so bloody much!

Much better just to stay here. Me and my little Rupert. All we need is each other and that's it...

The lack of sleep is *really* getting to me though. I do get some at least, but I'd like more. Rupert just keeps needing to eat. And feed. And feed, and eat. At this rate I wonder how much of me will be left...

##### [Beat.]

_(a little more upbeat)_ I love it when he looks at me when he's feeding, and then he gives me this big smile. This morning he got a smear of blood on his cheek. Like he was wearing makeup.

Just made him look more beautiful... Makes it all worth it.

And he's made me feel all better.

Just looking at your cute little face, Rupey, brings light to my dark world. 

#### NORRIS

Third recording ends.

Fourth recording. 

#### PATRICIA

I... _(sighs)_ I *really* need some sleep. I feel so... drained. Rupert... Rupert keeps getting his feedings. Not going to change that. Can't change that. *Has* to eat. I have to eat too, so *he* can eat. 

##### [The straw sound from before is gone. In its place we hear faint animal-like gurgles in the background.]

I...

_(takes a shaky breath)_ I had a... a strange thing happen today. Very... very strange.

Rupey was in his crib. In the... the -- room. The room where he sleeps, sometimes. And... and when I came in...

_(another breath)_ On the wall was this... _(stronger)_ the shadow was wrong... I couldn't scream, though. Couldn't wake him up. I turned on the light to make it go away.

And when the light came on, it was gone. And there... there was Rupey. Sitting up in his crib. Looking... looking at me... Watching me...

The health visitor says it's normal. They're here every day now. It's such a help.

##### [The gurgling suddenly escalates into a roar, a demand to be fed.]

##### [It is not a baby.]

_(calling, softly)_ Rupey? You hungry again? Come on. Come here, then.

##### [Another, slightly mollified gurgle-roar]

The arm this time? Okay... 

#### NORRIS

Fourth recording ends.

Fifth recording. 

#### PATRICIA

_(exhausted, ragged quiet voice, almost a whisper)_ I don't know what's happening... to me... It all feels dark... like it's black clouds... all the time.

I can't remember when... when I last... had sleep. I think... I think days...

##### [Gurgling as in the last recording, closer to the microphone now]

It all feels too heavy... to move. So I'm sitting... I'm sitting all the time. But...

But I've got Rupert. On my lap.

##### [Fleshy noises; chewing]

So he can eat. When he wants. He can have me. My all. He's... he's what's... imp... _(draws breath)_ important.

I don't know... I don't know what's... going to happen. There's not much of me left.

##### [More fleshy noises as Rupert digs around for something to eat.]

##### [Chewing.]

_(breathing heavier)_ I'm so scared.

But... at least... Rupey's happy...

---

##### [Sam and Celia are packing up to go.]

#### CELIA

All set? 

#### SAM

Just about. 

##### [He zips his bag.]

#### CELIA

You all right? You sound nervous. 

#### SAM

I mean, maybe a little, but it's good nervous. I think. 

#### CELIA

Good. _(audibly smiling)_ Let's go and shake some answers out of people. 

#### SAM

_(fondly)_ You are way too excited for this.

##### [Celia chuckles]

##### [New set of footsteps approach]

##### [Packing noises stop]

#### ALICE

Heading off? 

##### [Sam sighs]

#### CELIA

We are, yeah. 

#### SAM

_(flat)_ And before you ask, yes, we've cleared our cases for the night. 

#### ALICE

Cool. Listen, Sam --

#### SAM

And no, we haven't asked Lena if we can leave early. It's not like *you* ever do.

#### ALICE

Would you shut up and listen.

_(serious)_ Look, I need to talk to you both. 

#### CELIA

_(meeting her tone)_ What's wrong? 

#### ALICE

I don't -- I don't think you should go. 

#### SAM

_(exasperated)_ *Really?* This *again?* 

#### CELIA

_(ignoring Sam)_ Go on. 

#### ALICE

It's Gwen. She's... *not* okay. 

#### SAM

We noticed. Not really much we can do about it, though.

_(bitter, but curious despite himself)_ And since when do you care? 

#### ALICE

Since it became clear that something really *bad* is going on?

#### CELIA

What happened? 

#### ALICE

_(struggling)_ It's -- It's the um, 'Externals'... 

#### SAM

Those contractors she's been working with? 

#### ALICE

*No.* Well, yeah, but it's more than that. They're...

They're not... Human. It's bad. *Bad* bad. People have been killed, and... and I think one of them might be targeting us. 

#### SAM

_(incredulous)_ What?

#### ALICE

_(voice cracking)_ I'm serious, all right! You remember that woman I found? 

#### SAM

Yeah. 

#### ALICE

Well, I think it might have been one of these "Externals"? I-- There was this tape recorder, and Gwen said she saw --

#### SAM

_(incredulous snort)_ A tape recorder? What are y--? Look, Alice, I know you don't like me looking into this stuff, but killer tape recorders is *weird.* Even for you!

##### [Alice sighs, fed up]

#### CELIA

_(to Alice)_ I believe you. 

#### SAM

*What?!*

#### ALICE

Really? 

#### CELIA

Yeah. I mean, you know, after everything we've been seeing coming through the system? It makes sense. 

#### SAM

It does? 

#### CELIA

_(To Sam)_ Is it *really* so hard to believe that something is hunting us back?

#### SAM

...

_(reluctant)_ I suppose it's not impossible?

Okay, so let's say, just for the sake of argument, that we believe you. What are we supposed to do about it? Hmm? I don't know if you've noticed, but we're not exactly equipped to fight off monsters or evil VHS tapes or whatever. 

#### ALICE

You could stop poking your nose in where it doesn't belong for a start! 

#### SAM

_(snort)_ So it *is* about that. I knew it! Look, if you are right about this, and I'm not saying that you are, surely that only makes it *more* important to figure out what's going on? 

#### ALICE

Are you *serious* right now?! None of this started until *you* joined and started kicking beehives! 

##### [Sam exhales angrily]

#### CELIA

Or perhaps you just didn't see it. I'm with Sam on this one.

##### [Alice sighs, exasperated]

#### CELIA

I don't think ignorance is going to keep us safe. 

#### SAM

And the Magnus Institute is involved. I just know it. 

#### ALICE

I'm just *trying* --

#### CELIA

_(speaking louder)_ But that doesn't mean we can't be careful, take precautions, watch each other's backs. Right?

*Riiight?*

#### SAM

...Yeah. Right. 

#### ALICE

_(picking her words)_ I guess that'll have to do.

##### [Pause.]

#### SAM

_(flat)_ Cool. Then I guess we've got a tube to catch.

##### [Sam starts walking off] 

#### ALICE

_(to Celia, quietly but forcefully)_ Keep an eye on him. 

#### CELIA

I will. 

#### SAM

_(Calling)_ Celia, come on, we're going to be late!

##### [Celia jogs off to join Sam. They exit.]

#### ALICE

_(softly)_ *Shit.*

---

##### [Phone dial-up noises and brief static before the phone starts up]

#### CELIA

_(quietly)_ --your phone recording? 

#### SAM

_(quietly)_ All good.

##### [A door clicks open, and they walk in.]

#### BASIRA

Good morning, Mr and Mrs... Fisher, is it? Good. Please take a seat.

##### [Door closes; Sam and Celia sit.]

#### BASIRA

_(leafing through papers)_ So I understand you're hoping to enroll your son, is that correct? 

#### SAM

Er... yes, that's right. We've heard *very* good things about St. Luke's.

#### BASIRA

Well, that's what we like to hear. I assume you've completed an application already?

Good! Well, once we've got that, you'll be asked to come for a tour with, um... 

#### CELIA

Humphry.

##### [Sam snorts] 

#### BASIRA

...Humphry, and you'll have a chance to meet some of our staff. 

#### SAM

We'd also like to know a little more about you, if that's all right? 

#### BASIRA

_(Thrown)_ Me? 

#### CELIA

We know *St. Luke's* is prestigious, but I think we both know that what *reeeeally* makes an exceptional school is the person calling the shots, right? 

#### BASIRA

...Well, you're not wrong!

##### [Celia exhales in amusement]

Though I'll remind you I am only *deputy* head. Mr. Donaldson technically runs the school, though he is not on site today. 

#### SAM

So, what's *your* history? 

#### BASIRA

Excuse me? 

#### CELIA

_(with a laugh)_ You'll have to excuse my husband's -- *bluntness.*

##### [Sam makes an embarrassed noise]

#### CELIA

_(stage-whisper)_ He works in finance. 

#### BASIRA

Ah. 

#### CELIA

What he is *trying* to ask, is if we could please know a little more about *your* background before coming to St. Luke's? 

#### BASIRA

I see.

Well, I've been in charge here for almost five years. This is my fourth educational position, and my second deputy head role. I was also nominated for a Pearson Award for my -- previous work at Edgecroft Academy. 

#### CELIA

That's *very* impressive. 

#### SAM

And before that you were a teacher? Any work or experience at other academic institutions? 

#### BASIRA

_(bristling a little)_ I *do* have actual classroom experience, if that's what you're implying. 

#### CELIA

_(through a gritted-teeth smile)_ I think my husband is wondering what it was that led you to working in the school system?

##### [Beat.]

#### BASIRA

_(terse)_ I was raised with a respect for education by a pair of academics. I am told that children like me, and I've always held the opinion that the world would be a better place if everyone just thought *more.*

Is that sufficient for your husband? 

#### SAM

Er... y-yes. Thank you. 

#### BASIRA

Are you sure? I may be able to rustle up my old school reports, a vaccination record perhaps.

##### [Celia laughs awkwardly to ease the tension.]

#### SAM

Have you ever been involved with the Magnus Institute? 

#### BASIRA

_(caught off guard)_ What? No, I don't --

Is that a school? 

#### SAM

Sort of. Maybe. 

#### BASIRA

_(impatient)_ Well I've never even heard of it. What is this about? 

#### CELIA

How about the police? 

#### SAM

Huh?

#### BASIRA

_(angry now)_ I'm sorry, what has that got to do with anything? 

#### SAM

_(thrown)_ Good question. 

#### CELIA

I'm just wondering -- holding so many positions of responsibility, did you ever consider becoming a police officer? 

#### BASIRA

...

I did not. _(standing)_ Look, Mr and Mrs... Fisher, I suspect you may have me confused with someone else. Regardless, our time is up and I have other places I need to be. 

#### SAM

No, yeah, of course. _(lower)_ Sorry. 

##### [Sam and Celia stand]

#### CELIA

Thank you so much for meeting with us. 

#### BASIRA

_(ushering them out)_ Mrs Banks will show you to the main entrance. Any further enquiries about enrollment should be directed to our admissions departments. 

#### CELIA

Of course. 

#### BASIRA

_(coolly)_ Good day to both of you.

##### [The door is closed brusquely.]

#### SAM

...Well, that could have gone better. What was that police stuff about? 

#### CELIA

Thought I remembered something from the file. _(lightly)_ Guess I was wrong.

Anyway, come on. Humphry's waiting for us. 

#### SAM

Who?

Oh right, yeah. "Humphry." 

---

##### [Music]

#### ANNOUNCER

The Magnus Protocol is a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill and licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Sharealike 4.0 International License. The series is created by Jonathan Sims and Alexander J Newall, and directed by Alexander J Newall.

This episode was written by Alex Telander and edited with additional materials by Jonathan Sims and Alexander J Newall, with vocal edits by Lowri Ann Davies, soundscaping by Tessa Vroom, and mastering by Catherine Rinella with music by Sam Jones.

It featured Billie Hindle as Alice Dyer, Shahan Hamza as Samama Khalid, Anusia Battersby as Gwen Bouchard Lowri Ann Davies as Celia Ripley, Sarah Lambie as Lena Kelley with additional voices from Alexander J Newall.

The Magnus Protocol is produced by April Sumner, with executive producers Alexander J Newall, Dani McDonough, Linn Ci, and Samantha F.G. Hamilton, and Associate Producers Jordan L. Hawk, Taylor Michaels, Nicole Perlman, Cetius d'Raven, and Megan Nice.

To subscribe, view associated materials, or join our Patreon, visit rustyquill.com. Rate and review us online, tweet us @therustyquill, visit us on facebook or email us at mail@rustyquill.com.

Thanks for listening.