---
layout:          post
title:           "MAGP 41 - Internal Investigation"
date:            2025-07-03 15:00:00 # in UTC
episode_type:      [episode]
tags:            []
voiced:          []
categories:			"tmagp"
podcasts: ["tmagp"]
title_prefix:	"MAGP"
prev_categories: ["tmagp"]
prev_prefixes: ["MAGP"]
prev_episode:	['040']
prev_episode_num:		['040']
prev_episode_title:		["Public Image"]
episode_title:   'Internal Investigation'
episode_number:  '041'
summary:         "CAT1RB5535-17061995-10062024<br/>transmutation (organs) -/- experimentation (metal)"
content_flags:   ["graphic descriptions of post-mortem examination"]
acast_url:      https://shows.acast.com/themagnusarchives/episodes/the-magnus-protocol-41-internal-investigation
official:        true
notes: ""
---

##### [Intro Theme]

#### ANNOUNCER

Rusty Quill Presents: The Magnus Protocol.

Episode Forty-One -- Internal Investigation. 

##### [Music]

---

##### [The O.I.A.R. microphone begins to record]

##### [Celia types alone in the office for an agonizingly long time]

##### [Door opens; footsteps approaching]

#### GWEN

Celia.

#### CELIA

_(a bit sharp)_ Look. I *know* we're behind on caseloads, but there's not much I can do about it on my own. We're four team members down now and I really think I --

#### GWEN

That wasn't what I wanted to talk to you about. 

#### CELIA

Oh, right. Sorry. 

#### GWEN

Apology accepted. Although now you mention it...

#### CELIA

_(pointed)_ What. Did. You want to ask? 

#### GWEN

Have you heard anything from Alice? 

#### CELIA

_(sighing)_ Mm. Nothing, not a word since she arrived in Berlin. 

#### GWEN

_(leading)_ Oh *really?*

#### CELIA

Yes, really. 

#### GWEN

No texts. No emails? 

#### CELIA

*No.* 

#### GWEN

You're *sure?*

#### CELIA

_(restrained)_ What are you implying, Gwen? 

#### GWEN

Nothing.

##### [Beat.]

...When did you last check? 

#### CELIA

_(wearily sympathetic)_ Gwen... there's no shame in being worried about her. 

#### GWEN

_(scoffing)_ Hardly! I just know that if she were to call, it wouldn't be to *my* phone. So I thought it pertinent to check with you. Just in case. 

#### CELIA

Oh, I'm sure she --

#### GWEN

Please don't. I've worked with Alice long enough to know how little she thinks of me. 

#### CELIA

...I mean, you don't make it *easy,* but I'm sure she's fond of you. In her own way. 

#### GWEN

Well, be that as it may, the situation remains that what little rapport we may have once shared has very much ended now that I am her superior. And as a result, I suspect that if she *had* contacted you from Berlin, _(pointed)_ she would have likely told you to keep me in the dark.

#### CELIA

Oh, that's not true...

...Okay she totally might do that. But I promise she *hasn't* called me.

##### [Gwen is very loudly silent.] 

#### CELIA

_(colder)_ Was there anything else? 

#### GWEN

No. That's all for now, I think.

You can get back to work.

##### [Beat]

##### [Celia swivels back and starts to type]

##### [Gwen gives a satisfied huff and walks back to her office. The door closes.]

##### [Celia immediately slams a fist on her keyboard]

#### CELIA

_(frustrated)_ *Ugh!*

##### [Beep]

#### CHESTER

Witness Statement of Dr Chloe Gemmell Bsc. MB. BS, MRCPath, DipRCPath (forensic)  
Date of Birth: 2nd February 1970  
Occupation: Criminal Pathologist  
Address: Greater Manchester Police HQ

This statement is true to the best of my knowledge.

Dated 17th June 1995

This is a confidential report to the coroner and should not be disclosed without permission.

At approximately 09:30am on the 9th June 1995, at the request of Greater Manchester Police, I attended the scene of a suspicious death near Didsbury, Lancashire.

I was logged into the outer cordon at 09:32am and was logged into the inner cordon at 09:41am by a PC and met by DI Bettie Osbourne, Principal SOCO David Schäfer and Senior SOCO Grant Chapman.

Mr. Schäfer provided background information. A neighbor reported sounds of a confrontation and chemical smells at approximately 2am and later reported seeing a body through a back window at 4am. Paramedics attended and declared life extinct at 4:35am. Police arrested suspect at scene.

Upon entering I saw that the kitchen was filled with chemistry apparatus and broken glass on the floor, seemingly from a broken, oversized container with bloodstains. There were various residues on most surfaces along with extensive diagrams and what looked like an MLM sales guide for "Marconi Alchemics."

The body of the deceased was lying in the doorway to the adjoining utility room, half covered with laundry.

Fact of death: Having consulted with the Senior Investigating Officer DI Bettie Osbourne, I examined the body to verify the death. This was confirmed at 10:09am.

Scene Examination: The body was of a middle-aged, caucasian woman. She was lay on her right side in a fetal position with her head towards the backdoor. The left arm was extended towards the door with slight flex. The right arm was pressed against the body with the right elbow flexed and the right hand clutched at the face. The legs were extended behind with minimal rotation.

Clothing: A floral knee length dress, fully buttoned. A pair of bi-focal glasses. One full length, leather apron tied around the back with "Marconi Alchemics" embroidery. Plastic eye protectors embossed with same logo. Pair of pink socks. Pair of pink shoes, medium heel, no laces.

Body was undressed and examined at scene with tapings and swabs obtained.

Bloodstaining and contamination: Minor bloodstaining on right hand collar. Dirt on left hand and both knees. Minor vomitus running from the right corner of the mouth. Blood staining under both sets of fingernails. No soiling. Body appears to be uniformly covered in Sodium Chloride. Swab taken.

Adjacent Scene: Body was covered in clean laundry. Minor bloodstaining and vomitus under head on right side. Body of deceased partially propped against washing machine. Tumble dryer door open with some clothes inside. Bloodstaining on large glass flask.

Rigor Mortis: Fully established in all muscle groups.

Temperature: Reading at 10:32am. Ambient temperature 30 degrees Celsius with thermometer reading 24 degrees.

Signs of visible injury: 8 incised wounds of similar depth at nape of neck with two at larynx indicating strangulation.

Protective Clothing: Standard procedures observed.

Logged out of inner cordon at 11:17am. Logged out of outer cordon at 11:25am.

Exhibits list -- scene: Standardized swabs, plucking and tapes (see attached). Scraping from beneath nails on right and left hand. Swab of indentations on neck. Sample of vomitus. Swab of blood from glass flask.

Post Mortem Examination:

10th July 1995, attended mortuary at Stepping Hill Hospital for special post mortem of Alana Ward. Examination began at 8:20pm. Persons present were DI Bettie Osbourne, Principal SOCO Warren Schäfer, Senior SOCO Grant Chapman, DC Marko Mason (exhibits) and mortuary technician Kaela DeAngelis. Standard photographs were taken under my direction.

Recognized decedent received in white signature-sealed body bag and wrapped in black plastic sheet. She was a well nourished, adult female, light build, 165cm tall but weighing 105kg, significantly exceeding weight expectations.

Long, dyed red hair with exposed brown and grey roots. Shaved body hair with trimmed nails 0.1cm long with signs of tearing.

Two vaccination scars over the left, upper arm. Old curving scar below navel consistent with cesarean section. No tattoos.

Post Mortem Changes: Rigor mortis still firmly established. Weakly developed, mobile, primary hypostasis on right side with associated blanching.

Signs of sharp force injury: Incised wounds at base of neck and larynx consistent with strangulation. Indentations recorded. Minor lacerations to face at point of contact with floor. Multiple markings consistent with phlebotomy on inside of left elbow. Angle of insertion indicates self-inflicted with no expertise. Extensive reddening around the neck suggest injuries inflicted whilst alive.

Other signs of injury:

Head and neck -- Minor abrasion on right parietal scalp. Major blunt crushing trauma to neck consistent with strangulation.

Trunk -- minor abrasions consistent with insect activity.

Internal Examination:

Scalp -- stripped to nape of neck posteriorly. Skull coated in foul smelling yellow residue. Sent to toxicology. Likely sulfur based but no sign of cause.

Skull -- Dura was stripped, no sign of fracture.

Brain -- Entire organ appears to have been replaced with solid silver facsimile but no sign of surgery. Entire organ removed with difficulty and passed to toxicology for further examination.

Face -- soft tissues dissected to the bone. No evidence of injury. Grey tone indicative of systemic shock or hypoxia.

Mouth -- Tongue bitten. Metallic discoloration in mouth lining, sample sent to toxicology.

Neck -- heavy damage to larynx and trachea, consistent with strangulation. Bruising in strap muscles with hairline thyroid bone fracture and cartilage damage. Finger patterns recorded in skin.

Chest -- Pleura were stripped. Significant metallic discoloration noted. Samples sent to toxicology. Ribs were flayed. No evidence of fracture but severe deformation of pleural cavity and surrounding tissue.

Lungs -- Exposure of pleural sack revealed. It was filled with dense metallic deposit. Autopsy paused and additional biohazard procedures were enacted, leaving me as only physical presence. Incision into the pleural membrane released large amounts of liquid metal, suspected mercury. Sample sent to toxicology. Lungs entirely absent; no evidence of surgery.

Heart -- With great difficulty organ was removed and cleaned, revealing what appears to be solid gold facsimile in its place. No sign of surgery and pulmonary vessels were directly attached without scarring. Organ sent to toxicology under DI Osbourne's supervision.

Stomach -- undamaged beyond slight deformation from weight of replaced surrounding tissue. Contents consisted of one cornish pasty, partial digestion.

Intestines -- Appear normal. No perforations, inflammation or pathological changes.

Liver -- Entirely replaced by silvery metallic facsimile. Organ removed for toxicology but initial indications of tin.

Kidneys -- Entirely replaced by copper facsimiles. Organ sent for analysis. 

Bladder -- Undamaged with no indications of tumors, inflammation or stones.

Generative Organs -- Womb, cervix, fallopian tubes and ovaries fully removed. Scarring consistent with hysterectomy. No evidence of other trauma.

Spleen -- Dense and soft metallic facsimile of organ removed for analysis. Suspected lead. Severe deformation of surrounding tissue, likely as a result of excessive organ weight.

Endocrine Organs -- All appear normal but samples provided for toxicology due to prevalence of foreign bodies.

Other Organs -- Gallbladder replaced by metallic facsimile, suspected iron. Organ removed for testing.

Additional notes -- High-speed oscillating autopsy saw was damaged during Y incision due to unexpected foreign bodies. Difficulties introducing trocar for bodily fluid collection due to same.

Organ weights -- See attached. Note: Weights of facsimiles provided in lieu of missing organs.

Post-mortem concluded at 02:30 11th July 1995.

Mortuary Exhibits List: See attached.

Toxicology: Complete toxicology report is still pending, but initial testing verifies visual observations of stated heavy metals.

Histology: Each organ has been collected for further analysis with conventional examination impossible. Spectroscopic analysis is underway.

Time of death: Based upon temperatures recorded at scene, computed with Henssge's nomogram, indicates a time of death at approximately eight hours earlier at 2am on 9th June 1995, but the large amount of metallic foreign bodies found in the decedent significantly reduce the reliability of this estimate.

Conclusions:

Damage to the throat and neck accompanied with indications of hypoxia are consistent with strangulation from the front via foul play. That stated, the near complete replacement of decedent's vital organs with metallic facsimiles appears to have somehow happened prior to death without surgery.

I am given to understand that a suspect was arrested at the scene, but I assume there has been a clerical error as they were listed as having the same identity as the decedent.

Extreme caution is advised when handling evidence relating to the case due to confirmed presence of toxic materials.

I have already insisted that all persons present at the autopsy and scene receive medical examination for poisoning. Results are pending.

Personal Comments:

I don't know what I just witnessed. If any similar cases arise, do NOT contact me. 

---

##### [The landline begins recording]

##### [Blinds rustling as Gwen stares at Celia through her window]

#### GWEN

Hmph.

##### [She releases the blinds, then goes and sits down at her desk]

##### [She sighs.]

##### [Drawer opening: Gwen takes out the decanter and pours herself a drink]

##### [She takes a deep, steadying breath.]

##### [Her computer pings: an email alert]

##### [Gwen puts down the glass, startled]

#### GWEN

...Freddie?

##### [Another ping]

##### [Gwen hesitates, then takes a steadying breath and clicks]

##### [A moment of silence]

#### GWEN

So, do I call this number? Or...

##### [More silence]

Right.

##### [She clears her throat, then punches a number into the landline]

##### [It rings. It rings again. It rings a third time.] 

#### GWEN

_(to herself)_ Oh, this is ridiculous. 

##### [The call connects]

#### LENA

_(on phone, drawling)_ Hello, Gwen.

##### [Gwen inhales in shock]

#### GWEN

_(astounded)_ Lena? 

#### LENA

Obviously. Who else would be answering *my* personal mobile in the middle of the night? 

#### GWEN

*Oh,* e-er... How are you? 

#### LENA

Irritated and impatient. What do you want? 

#### GWEN

Oh. Well I, er... I found this number and thought I would check to see who answered. 

#### LENA

I see.

##### [She waits]

##### [Gwen says nothing]

#### LENA

Well, if that's all, then I shall go back to bed. I have curling practice in the morning. 

#### GWEN

...Right. 

#### LENA

And make sure you delete this number. I've no interest in any further late-night disturbances from you. 

#### GWEN

Er -- yes. All right.

##### [Lena moves to hang up, then hesitates.]

#### LENA

_(sighs; despite herself:)_ How are you finding it, Gwen? 

#### GWEN

Excuse me? 

#### LENA

Is it everything you hoped? 

#### GWEN

I'm doing just *fine,* thank you. 

#### LENA

_(chuckling)_ Then you're doing better than I did when I started. It took me almost a year just to get things in order. 

#### GWEN

_(quickly)_ Well, it's better now. 

#### LENA

_(unconvinced)_ Of course it is. The important thing is just keeping everyone safe. Do that and you're mostly there. 

#### GWEN

Right.

Yes. 

#### LENA

It's just a shame I didn't have more time to train my replacement before I --

#### GWEN

_(interrupting)_ Retired? 

#### LENA

Moved to the private sector, how old do you think I *am,* Gwen? 

#### GWEN

Oh. Er --

#### LENA

*Don't* answer that.

#### GWEN

...Look, since I have you on the line anyway I was wondering if you could tell me --

#### LENA

Not over the phone. There's a reason I had you taking physical letters. 

#### GWEN

_(snapping)_ I--...

_(catching herself)_ Fine. 

#### LENA

I'll send you a postcard with a time and place. Come alone and bring cash. 

#### GWEN

_(restrained)_ Alright. 

#### LENA

And just to be absolutely clear, I would *quite* happily leave you in the bed you've made for yourself if I thought it wouldn't affect the others.

#### GWEN

...

Understood. 

#### LENA

And bring the bottle in my desk. It was a gift for someone and I'd like it back. 

#### GWEN

Oh, er -- yes. _(clinking as she picks up the glass)_ Yes, all right.

#### LENA

...

You drank it, didn't you.

#### GWEN

Not *all* of it.

##### [Lena sighs again, then hangs up.] 

#### GWEN

Lena? Hello? 

---

##### [Dial-up sounds: a phone recording]

<!-- Alice is sat in the good chair. It's fine. They are in a different part of the warehouse, it is still dank and mostly empty but with less homicidal puppets. Heinrich stands. Alice sits awkwardly in the middle of the mostly empty room.  -->

##### [We're in the warehouse again -- big, echoey]

##### [Heinrich exhales lowly]

#### HEINRICH

Your chair. He is *gut?* 

#### ALICE

Oh -- er, yeah! Yeah, great, thanks. Four legs and everything... 

#### HEINRICH

I am glad.

##### [Beat. The wind whistles.]

#### ALICE

So, you said you could catch me up on what you were talking with Colin about? 

#### HEINRICH

Very well, we shall "cut-to-the-chase." Colin contacted me some months ago wishing to learn more about your Friedrich program. He said its origins were here, and that your files mark me as the only "safe" Angstjäger in Berlin.

_(darker)_ This was of course very insulting and you will agree, *untrue,* yes?

##### [He -- the place, the air -- swells ever so slightly, somewhere between a sail-in-wind and a bellows.]

#### ALICE

_(nervous)_ Uh -- yeah. No, no, safe is... not the word I would use!

#### HEINRICH

Mmm. You are afraid of me, yes?

##### [He stands a little closer]

#### ALICE

Uhhhh. _(audible terrified smile)_ Yeah. 

#### HEINRICH

Mmmm. Schön zu hören. _(backing off slightly)_ Colin was pleasant. I liked him, and so I agreed to help him find his Friedrich. 

#### ALICE

...So did you find him or... 

#### HEINRICH

_(ominous)_ Oh, yes. But also no.

#### ALICE

...

Right. Listen, Henrik... 

#### HEINRICH

*Heinrich.* 

#### ALICE

*Heinrich.* Look, I'm real scared right now --

#### HEINRICH

Danke. 

#### ALICE

-- but I've had a long flight and a rough few weeks and it's bad enough reading all Colin's rambling without doing the *cryptic doublespeak* thing on top, so can we just not? For now?

_(pleading)_ Please?

##### [Beat]

##### [Heinrich sighs, deflated, and becomes distinctly less imposing]

#### HEINRICH

Very well.

Entschuldigung, it has just been some time since I could... how-do-you-say... play the part? 

#### ALICE

Cheers. I appreciate it. 

#### HEINRICH

Hmmm. What I found was not much, but I have only been learning computers recently, with Colin's help. I have been looking on the internet and this has led me to believe Friedrich was never a person at all. 

#### ALICE

And why is that? 

#### HEINRICH

Because it is not a name. _(delightedly)_ It is a bezeichnung!

#### ALICE

Sorry, I-I don't... 

#### HEINRICH

No? Ah, uh -- a version? You know, Anton, Ärger, Berta, Cäsar? 

#### ALICE

Er... 

#### HEINRICH

_(aside)_ Mein Gott, Englisch... er... "Version A." "Version B."

#### ALICE

_(realising)_ Wait. Waiiiit, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait -- You're saying Freddie, Friedrich, t-the guy I've flown all the way here to find, isn't even a *guy?* He's just what, an update number? Mr Foxtrot? 

#### HEINRICH

Ja! Friedrich, Foxtrot, same thing: program number 8. 

#### ALICE

But Colin had all these notes about a German programmer!

#### HEINRICH

Yes, there was such a man who built your "Freddie." The few references we found had the initials 'K.S.', so you see, not Friedrich. 

#### ALICE

Christ on a bike...!

#### HEINRICH

It is funny, yes? 

#### ALICE

_(frustrated)_ No! No it's not.

##### [She thinks for a moment.] 

#### ALICE

Right.

Well this has been fun, Heinrich --

#### HEINRICH

Zehr Gut. 

#### ALICE

And I appreciate you not skinning me alive --

#### HEINRICH

Bitte. 

#### ALICE

But I think I need to go and have a think about what to do now.

##### [She stands and prepares to leave.] 

#### HEINRICH

I did mention, I think, that I also found an address.

#### ALICE

_(stopping)_ An address? For what? 

#### HEINRICH

I do not know. It was associated mit der program designation. I thought it impolite, to visit without Colin, but -- he is dead. So, I will visit with you.

##### [He approaches Alice as he speaks, the boom of his footsteps echoing through the air] 

#### ALICE

_(nervous)_ Listen, Heinrich, you really don't need to come with me. I'm sure you'd rather stay here in your... toy... abbatoir... 

#### HEINRICH

Nonsense. We are friends now. I will visit with you. 

#### ALICE

No, really, I don't --

#### HEINRICH

_(dark)_ I insist.

##### [Beat]

#### ALICE

...Uh, okay then?

#### HEINRICH

_(normal again)_ Wunderbar! I will bring the chair. 

#### ALICE

Um... thanks? 

#### HEINRICH

Naturlich.

##### [He opens the door with a metallic creak]

Now, let us "paint the town red." 

#### ALICE

Um... Alright, then!

##### [Heinrich laughs. Alice does not.]

---

##### [Music]

#### ANNOUNCER

The Magnus Protocol is a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill and licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Sharealike 4.0 International License. The series is created by Jonathan Sims and Alexander J Newall, and directed by Alexander J Newall.

This episode was written by Alexander J Newall and edited with additional materials by Jonathan Sims, with vocal edits by Nico Vettese, soundscaping by Meg McKellar, and mastering by Catherine Rinella with music by Sam Jones.

It featured Billie Hindle as Alice Dyer, Anusia Battersby as Gwendolyn Bouchard, Lowri Ann Davies as Celia Ripley, Sarah Lambie as Lena Kelley, with additional voices from Jonathan Sims.

The Magnus Protocol is produced by April Sumner, with executive producers Alexander J Newall, Dani McDonough, Linn Ci, and Samantha F.G. Hamilton, and Associate Producers Jordan L. Hawk, Taylor Michaels, Nicole Perlman, Cetius d'Raven, and Megan Nice.

To subscribe, view associated materials, or join our Patreon, visit rustyquill.com. Rate and review us online, tweet us @therustyquill, visit us on facebook or email us at mail@rustyquill.com.

Thanks for listening.